Some people think we are not transparent because we haven’t gone public, but this doesn’t make sense to me. Huawei adopts a new model under which its funds are collected from its employees. This may even become a model for most companies in the future. How is this model different from those of Northern Europe? There is no difference at all. In other words, we embrace employee capitalism, and there are no zillionaires at our company.
Over the past year, we have held 20 press conferences to pass on first-hand information to our customers, partners, the media, and the general public. Some of these gatherings include:
In the Asia-Pacific Region, as we saw fluctuations in carrier investment cycles in some countries and were denied access to the Google Mobile Services (GMS) ecosystem in the consumer business, Huawei’s revenue from this region decreased to CNY70,533 million in this region, down 13.9% year-on-year.
IP: Huawei’s intelligent 5G transport networks guarantee high bandwidth and low latency while ensuring reliable connectivity. This is achieved through the Network Cloud Engine (NCE) smart brain using FlexE-based slicing, SRv6-based low latency, and real-time packet loss detection by in- situ Flow Information Telemetry (iFIT). Some of our achievements in 2019 include the following:
■	 As the C-Band spectrum for 5G is currently not available for some carriers, Huawei’s Sub-3 GHz NR Solution helps them reuse existing Sub-3 GHz spectrum resources on their live networks for quick and extensive 5G coverage.
converged networks that deliver the best experience for edge and indoor users. Huawei’s Digital Indoor System Solution enables 5G networks to deliver large capacity in indoor scenarios and a consistent indoor and outdoor experience, and supports evolution towards future networks. Some of our achievements in 2019 include the following:
Huawei’s end-to-end solutions including Flex-PON, QuickODN, and PremiumWi-Fi help carriers build 10G PON-ready networks, provide users with ubiquitous gigabit-level service experiences, drive the large-scale deployment of new services such as 4K, 8K, and VR, and succeed in gigaband. Some of our key efforts and success stories include the following:
In 2019, Huawei continued working with industry organizations such as TMF and GSMA and some leading carriers to explore the use cases and architecture of ADN. Together, we released white papers and use case study reports, which promoted the industry consensus on the goals and architecture of ADN, as well as the standards for intelligently setting ADN levels from L1 to L5.
Wi-Fi 6: Huawei is a leader in the Wi-Fi 6 market. Powered by our leading 5G technologies, AirEngine Wi-Fi 6 helps industry customers worldwide build Wi-Fi 6 networks with zero coverage holes, zero wait times, and zero packet loss while roaming. Some of our achievements in Wi-Fi 6 include the following:
Some of our success stories include the following:
Some of our success stories include the following:
In rail transport, Huawei serves more than 170 urban rail lines in over 70 cities worldwide. The following examples describe some of our work and achievements in this domain:
Huawei has worked with its customers and partners in the electricity industry to launch innovative solutions such as AI-powered inspections and power distribution IoT. These solutions have been extensively adopted by notable power companies including Saudi Electricity Company, the Turkish Electricity Transmission Corporation (TEIAS), the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) of Thailand, the State Grid Corporation of China, and China Southern Power Grid. The solutions help them build digital power grids, achieve digital operations, and provide digital services. Some of our success stories include the following:
Working with its partners worldwide, Huawei leverages technologies including cloud computing, big data, and 5G to help customers in the manufacturing industry reshape their value chains, develop innovative business models, and create new value. Some of our 2019 success stories include the following:
architecture, with advanced AI chips, open operating systems, and a future-proof ecosystem. Huawei launched multiple innovative models of SDCs such as 5G dual-mode cameras and compound-eye cameras. Some models can provide up to 16 TOPS of computing power. These products also have industry-leading features such as intelligent 1+N (1 SDC + N common cameras), SuperColor, and online self-learning. Our SDCs have changed the form factors, networking, and deployment modes of traditional IP cameras, accelerating the evolution of the industry towards multidimensional awareness.
The Bureau of Industry and Security of the US Department of Commerce successively added Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., and some of its non-US affiliates, to the Entity List on May 16 and August 19, 2019, pursuant to § 744.11 of the Export Administration 
Ever since Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and some of its affiliates were added to the Entity List by the US Department of Commerce, the company has reiterated the importance of compliance with export control and work to ensure control measures are in place. We have also promptly communicated with our customers, suppliers, and other partners, enhancing mutual understanding and trust.
Throughout 2019, the frameworks guided the way in which we continued to drive process transformation, solutions, security engineering capabilities, security technologies and standards, independent verification, supply chain, and personnel management. This has enabled us to proactively enhance our end-to-end cyber security assurance capabilities. Some of the key activities undertaken in 2019 are highlighted here:
Non-equity financial assets are classified as FVOCI where they arise from contracts which give rise to contractual cash flows which are solely principal and interest and which are held in a business model which realises some through sale and some by holding them to maturity. They are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, or in the case of trade receivables, at the transaction price.
In the Consumer Business, POBs are typically terminal devices, accessories and services. In the Carrier Business, there are generally more POBs due to the nature of the contracts which typically involve sales of networking hardware, software and a wide range of services. In the Enterprise Business where the Group delivers bespoke end-to-end solutions, there may in some cases only be a few POBs.
Most Carrier Business contracts include multiple POBs for which revenue is recognised when the Group transfers control of each obligation, either at a point in time such as delivery or acceptance, or over time as the obligation is being fulfilled or the customer obtains control of the goods and/or services. Some Carrier Business construction contracts represent a single or a few POBs for which revenue is recognised over the delivery period.
incentives granted, is recognised when the Group receives consideration from the customer and expects to refund some or all of that consideration to the customer. Refund liabilities are presented in Other liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group leases office premises, staff apartments, warehouses, production equipment and motor vehicles in its normal course of business. These leases typically run for an initial period of one to five years. Some property leases contain extension options after the contract period and only a limited number of leases comprise variable payments. The Group also holds land use rights in the PRC, which are recognised as right-of-use assets at the date the Group became entitled to the rights.
Despite these efforts, we may still experience negative impacts due to the complex legal environments of some of the countries and regions in which we operate. For example, a lack of clarity or transparency in regards to local laws or ambiguity surrounding the legal system or law enforcement. Huawei will continue, as always, to learn from industry best practices and take preventative measures to address risks. The certainty of legal compliance is our best bulwark against the uncertainty of the external environment.
Trade risks: Trade barriers have been a persistent challenge for both importers and exporters. Deglobalization and protectionism, the two prominent risks within global trade, coupled with increasing trade restrictions, are further fueling global trade tensions. At the same time, while new technologies are driving changes in our economy, trade models, and daily lives, they are also rendering some existing trade rules obsolete. Following numerous setbacks, the world trading system has been weakened, calling for a revisit of existing trade rules.
In addition, mega free trade agreements are being negotiated and implemented across the globe. Some major economies are reassessing their trading relationships. All of these developments are creating greater policy uncertainty. On December 11, 2019, the Appellate Body of the World Trade Organization (WTO) was deemed dysfunctional for various reasons, serving as a direct example of the huge challenges facing international trade. As a global company, Huawei opposes protectionism, supports global trade rules, and places trade compliance above its own commercial interests.
The Bureau of Industry and Security of the US Department of Commerce successively added Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., and some of its non-US affiliates, to the Entity List on May 16 and August 19, 2019, pursuant to § 744.11 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). This means the export, re-export, or in-country transfer of any item subject to the EAR (including hardware, software, and technologies) to Huawei or its listed affiliates requires a license from the Department of Commerce.
According to World Health Organization estimates, around 19 million children around the world suffer from some sort of visual impairment. Early diagnosis is essential for children. With timely intervention, 70% to 80% of all cases are preventable or curable. However, diagnosing children can be difficult because they cannot articulate what they are experiencing. Now, AI is making this critical early diagnosis a very real possibility. 
Mining has traditionally been a hot, tough, and dangerous occupation, with collapses, landslides, and dust clouds possible at any moment. While remote-controlled trucks are considered to be a safer and more efficient alternative in some mining scenarios, they have failed to deliver the expected efficiency and safety gains due to long latency caused by slow network transmission. Now 5G is bringing us hope.
