not only to cities, but also to some of the most 
different forms of data, including numerical, text, 
transformation in all industries, and in some cases, it 
Some highlights are listed below.
by targeting individuals, homes, and enterprises. Some 
Some of our achievements are as follows:
connectivity to home users. Some of our achievements 
by Forrester Research. Some of our success stories 
that have been applied extensively. Some of these 
transformation. Some success stories include the 
has become the leader in the global IOC domain. Some 
intelligent refinery. Some achievements include the 
Some major breakthroughs we achieved in 2018 
certifications, and supply chain. Some highlights of 
to perform formal verification on some key designs 
an ecosystem where everything is connected. In 2018, some of our key initiatives 
development. In 2018, some of our key initiatives included:
some through sale and some by holding 
end-to-end solutions, there may in some 
and/or services. Some Carrier Business 
customer and expects to refund some or 
to its business, to FVOCI. Some of these equity 
some of countries and regions in which we operate, 
the representative office level in some countries. 
trustworthy and of high quality. Some key areas we will 
We encourage suppliers to learn from each other through benchmarking. We seek to create a strong and competitive learning atmosphere where suppliers can learn from each other during competition. Each supplier has unique experiences and capabilities. We identified some topics that we and our suppliers were both concerned about and organized face-to-face workshops to discuss them. Experts were also invited to the discussions and online and offline learning groups were established. Through peer learning and benchmarking activities, suppliers gained excellent experiences and learned the best practices quickly and at a low cost. In recognition of this practice, Huawei won the Best Practices Award from the United Nations Global Compact Network China.
