COVID-19 has drastically changed how we all live, work, and create value. Many communities were fortunate to have access to digital technology, which helped keep their lives in some semblance of working order.
In the Americas, our revenue declined by 24.5% YoY to CNY39,638 million due to investment fluctuations in some countries’ telecoms markets and our lack of access to the GMS ecosystem.
Huawei has been working with carriers worldwide to actively explore industrial applications of 5G, such as in coal mining, steel production, ports, and manufacturing, to create value for industry users and help carriers tap into the huge enterprise market. In certain scenarios, 5G can help enterprises ensure safer production and improve work environments for their employees while also improving productivity. Some of our success stories include the following:
Huawei’s ultra-fast Premium OTN Private Line solution adopts innovative technologies like optical cross-connect (OXC) and Liquid OTN to create a secure, reliable, and green optical foundation with low latency. This solution helps carriers monetize network performance, including bandwidth, latency, and reliability, and serves as a useful tool that helps carriers expand the government and enterprise market. Some of our success stories include the following:
In China, some of our success stories in 2020 included the following:
Huawei has also made efforts to support deaf users. The latest AI subtitling function offered by EMUI 11 can convert audio and video on smartphones into text and supports face-to-face translations, translating conversations collected through the microphone into text. This makes it much easier for deaf individuals to communicate with those around them.
We also launched the StorySign app in partnership with the European Union of the Deaf, the British Deaf Association, and other organizations. This app uses AI technology to help hearing-impaired children experience the world of literature. When StorySign scans a child’s favorite book, an animated character will appear and vividly translate the text into sign language, helping the child fully experience the joy of books.
The poplar trees donated by Huawei are expected to protect an area of around 6 square kilometers, equivalent to around 840 standard soccer pitches. A poplar tree will absorb 215.68 kg of CO2 on average during its lifetime, so this program will lead to about 10,780 tons of CO2 being absorbed, equivalent to the annual CO2 emissions of 4,000 cars with 1.6-liter engines. (Note: Some data was provided by the local forestry department of Jinta County.)
– We have also overcome some tough challenges 
Over the past decade, we weathered many crises from natural, political, economic, and trade-related conflicts to even violent conflict in some regions. In 2020, despite the devastation caused by COVID-19, Huawei continued to ensure supply continuity and achieve timely delivery of products and services to our customers. This shows that Huawei’s BCM system – as part of our overall management system – is functioning properly. Huawei is a global company that works in the network infrastructure, IT infrastructure, cloud services, and smart device domains. We have worked with over 10,000 suppliers and partners, and established sound, long-term partnerships with them.
This ruling has affected our business development to some extent. As a staunch advocate of globalization, we will continue to pursue supply chain diversity without depending on any one country or region, and then build our supply continuity upon the global supply chain. Remaining on the Entity List does not restrict or prohibit Huawei from providing products and services to our customers in accordance with compliance requirements. Based on the principles of collaboration for shared success and mutual development, Huawei is confident in our ability to work with partners to forge a secure, reliable, competitive, and healthy industry value chain. Huawei products will continue to meet customer requirements for sustained supply and delivery, and we will continue to deliver quality products, solutions, and services to our customers worldwide.
Ever since Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and some of its affiliates were added to the Entity List by the US Department of Commerce, the company has reiterated the importance of compliance with export control and has worked to ensure control measures are in place. We have also promptly communicated with our customers, suppliers, and other partners, enhancing mutual understanding and trust.
Initiatives for boosting organizational vitality focused on some key areas:
Non-equity financial assets are classified as FVOCI where they arise from contracts which give rise to contractual cash flows which are solely principal and interest and which are held in a business model which realises some through sale and some by holding them to maturity. They are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, or in the case of trade receivables, at the transaction price.
In the Consumer Business, POBs are typically terminal devices, accessories and services. In the Carrier Business, there are generally more POBs due to the nature of the contracts which typically involve sales of networking hardware, software and a wide range of services. In the Enterprise Business where the Group delivers bespoke end-to-end solutions, there may in some cases only be a few POBs.
Most Carrier Business contracts include multiple POBs for which revenue is recognised when the Group transfers control of each obligation, either at a point in time such as delivery or acceptance, or over time as the obligation is being fulfilled or the customer obtains control of the goods and/or services. Some Carrier Business construction contracts represent a single or a few POBs for which revenue is recognised over the delivery period.
A refund liability, such as the accrued rebates to customers and other sales-based incentives granted, is recognised when the Group receives consideration from the customer and expects to refund some or all of that consideration to the customer. Refund liabilities are presented in Other liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group leases office premises, staff apartments, warehouses, production equipments and motor vehicles in its normal course of business. These leases typically run for an initial period of one to five years. Some property leases contain extension options after the contract period and only a limited number of leases comprise variable payments. The Group also holds land use rights in the PRC, which are recognised as right-of-use assets at the date the Group became entitled to the rights.
During the year, the COVID-19 pandemic caused serious disruption to trade and business activity worldwide, and economic uncertainty and risk have increased significantly. The telecoms industry, however, is a vital part of the social and economic infrastructure, and has been less affected than others. The pandemic has accelerated the digital transformation of many industries and sped up the expansion of the digital economy and e-commerce. The Group acted decisively to safeguard the health of its employees and business partners, to resume operations as soon as possible and to ensure timely delivery to customers so as to minimise the adverse impact of the pandemic on its activities. While business in some countries has been affected, the overall impact of the pandemic on the Group’s operating results in 2020 has been limited.
Macro environment: The global economy is expected to gradually rebound in 2021. However, some countries may still enact new restrictions on economic activities until COVID-19 is under control. Such restrictions could lead to uneven recovery between countries. Trade frictions and geopolitical tensions are likely to continue straining business confidence and investment. Against this backdrop, Huawei will continue facing an uncertain external environment. Therefore, business departments and field offices must ramp up efforts to identify and control risks and promptly adjust strategies accordingly.
Despite these efforts, we may still experience negative impacts due to the complex legal environments of some of the countries and regions in which we operate. For example, a lack of clarity or transparency in regards to local laws or ambiguity surrounding the legal system or law enforcement. Huawei will continue, as always, to learn from industry best practices and take preventative measures to address risks. The certainty of legal compliance is our best bulwark against the uncertainty of external environment.
This ruling has affected our business development to some extent. As a staunch advocate of globalization, we will continue to pursue supply chain diversity without depending on any one country or region, and then build our supply continuity upon the global supply chain. Remaining on the Entity List does not restrict or prohibit Huawei from providing products and services to our customers in accordance with compliance requirements. Based on the principles of collaboration for shared success and mutual development, Huawei is confident in our ability to work with partners to forge a secure, reliable, competitive, and healthy industry chain. Huawei products will continue to meet customer requirements for sustained supply and delivery, and we will continue to deliver quality products, solutions, and services to our customers worldwide.
Supporting local industry ecosystems and SMEs: Huawei is committed to open collaboration and innovation for a thriving industry ecosystem. We provide open platforms for local partners, SMEs, and individual developers, which helps to incubate local ICT industries and digital economies. Huawei has over 30,000 partners in the enterprise market; more than 120,000 apps are available through our HMS ecosystem. Over 2.3 million developers worldwide have joined the ecosystem. HUAWEI CLOUD is currently working with over 19,000 partners and 1.6 million developers. In addition, more than 250,000 developers are engaging at some level with the full Kunpeng stack, from hardware and software to applications. Another 180,000 developers are producing and sharing new operators, models, and applications using Ascend.
An estimated one billion children have had their schooling interrupted in some way since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. With a relative lack of access to digital technologies compounding the effects of the shutdown, Bangladesh’s education system faces enormous challenges, with more than one million children affected.
