Legibility We have reviewed this report using our ColorSelector tool to choose  a highly accessible color combination so that the text and figures are as legible as possible to the widest range of readers.
Fujitsu Limited and Consolidated Subsidiaries The Fujitsu Group adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in fiscal 2014. On November 1, 2017, the Company sold some of its shares in Fujitsu TEN Limited to DENSO CORPORATION. Consequently, Fujitsu TEN became classified as a discontinued business and net sales (revenue) and operating profit were reclassified in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
with our customers, “co-creation,” in other words, will strengthen 
 Strategic shareholdings as of the end of March 2018 are being evaluated individually. Some of them have already been sold. We plan to disclose separately the results of the evalua- tions and the position with regard to sales within the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 in the Corporate Governance Report due to be submitted after the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.
For the complete text, please visit the following website.
Text conversion
Return to office after visiting  Company A for some work Visit to Company B postponed  until tomorrow or later…
*1 Fujitsu Group Information Security Policy, full text:
On November 1, 2017, the Company sold some of its shares in Fujitsu TEN Limited to DENSO CORPORATION. Consequently, Fujitsu TEN became classified as a discontinued business and net sales  (revenue) and operating profit were reclassified in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
This report is for our various stakeholders, including shareholders and other investors, and provides information on non-financial aspects, such as the environment, society, and governance, together with financial information. Through this publication, we aim to communicate the Fujitsu Group’s initiatives for business activities and value creation comprehensively and simply.  In this year’s report, we have sought particularly to clearly com- municate the management policy with a focus on efforts to promote “growth strategy transformation.”  In editing the report, we have referred to various guidelines, such as the International Integrated Reporting Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council.  the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). However, some sections have presented results under the Japanese account- ing standard for the purpose of year-on-year comparison. These sec- tions are indicated in the report.
Legibility We have reviewed this report using our ColorSelector tool to choose  a highly accessible color combination so that the text and figures are as legible as possible to the widest range of readers.
