Progress of Business Model Transformation  and Our Next Steps We will continue to base management policy on two types of transformation: “business structure transformation” and “growth strategy transformation.” We refer to this policy as the pursuit of “Connected Services.” In other words, with digital technology as a base, we aim to focus investment on turning ICT into  services and grow the Technology Solutions business globally.  Having established the Ubiquitous Solutions and Device Solutions businesses as wholly owned subsidiaries, we will increase their independence and consider various measures to increase competitiveness.  Accordingly, we will grow with customers by using in-house specialized capabilities to engage closely with their business strategies and to offer new value. Specifically, we will combine digital technologies with our in-depth knowledge of each cus- tomer’s industry and operations. Our focus on Connected Services has led customers to commission us for the provision of one-stop solutions covering initial consulting through to final delivery. The success of such projects has made us even more confident that we can improve profitability.  However, we have only completed 20% to 30% of the busi- ness model transformation. The immediate reason why progress has been slower than we initially expected is that it has taken time to build a consensus with a third party outside the Group. 
Ubiquitous Solutions • In April 2017, the Group decided to transfer some of its stake in car electronics manu-
and transforming our business model. In other words, we are pursuing “growth strategy transformation.”  As part of growth strategy transformation efforts, the Group has taken a series of reorganization measures over the past year. In November 2016, the Group merged three major domestic systems engineering subsidiaries with its headquarters. This brought together 14,000 systems engineers who provide custom- ers with services at the leading-edge of digital businesses. In January 2017, within the Global Services Integration Business we established the Digital Transformation Business Group, which specializes in helping customers digitize their operations. Then in April, we launched the Global Cyber Security Business, which oversees the cyber security field for the entire Group.
 ations of customers and support their formulation of innova- tions. Moreover, the resulting growth of customers and society will spur reinvestment of the benefits in digital innovation. In this way, we will establish virtuous cycles that create value of ever greater magnitude. In other words, our goal is to con- tinue growing with all stakeholders.
Cyber attacks are becoming more sophisticated and intense by the day, and the threat of these attacks presents a significant issue not only for Fujitsu but also for our customers and society as a whole. We at Fujitsu recognize that cyber security forms the core of our Connected Services and we have therefore positioned cyber security as a key area within our Management Direction.  In April 2017, we established the Global Cyber Security Business, which serves as a control tower that oversees the Fujitsu Group’s overall cyber security business. Under a globally unified business strategy, the division is moving forward with the integration and continuous strengthening of Fujitsu’s security services.  We aim to relieve our customers of their security-related  concerns, thereby realizing a society in which both Fujitsu and its customers can concentrate on their respective core businesses— in other words, innovative activities that lead to the resolution of social issues and that create value—without having to worry about the negative aspects of cyberspace. To this end, we are stepping up to establish services that allow  customers in Japan and overseas to entrust Fujitsu with all security- related aspects of their businesses. Specifically, we are providing a lineup of services on a global basis that help ensure system 
For the complete text, please visit the following website:
Understanding and Utilizing the SDGs The SDGs adopted by the United Nations in 2015 are a set of common goals to be achieved worldwide, including by developed countries, by 2030. Achieving these goals places considerable demand on private-sector enterprises to play an active and useful role through their technology and capacity for innovation.  efforts toward technological innovation with the aim of bringing happiness to people’s lives. However, in a broader sense, when con- sidering how our technologies can be applied throughout the world, we recognize that the SDGs, which represent a kind of global common language, represent a significant guiding principle.  Accordingly, the Fujitsu Group undertakes SDG-related activities as an opportunity for wide-ranging collaboration with other orga- nizations, including international agencies, governments, private enterprises, and NGOs/NPOs. Fujitsu recognizes SDGs as one of the  elements in an ecosystem for achieving its growth strategy of “Connected Services,” seeing new business opportunities through ventures that work to resolve social issues. By adopting a multifac- eted approach through cooperation with a large number of partners, we can create and grow social value on an even larger scale. By simultaneously reflecting on the common goals of interna-  tional society along with the role that Fujitsu ought to play in their fulfillment, we become able to flexibly transform our management and business in ways that are not bound by existing approaches and methodologies. Through this process, we will reexamine our- selves in light of society’s expectations and demands, while actively using the SDGs as a tool in our management strategy for achieving sustainable growth. Fujitsu’s business model is embodied in the following words:  “Starting with our ICT platforms, we spur innovation for our custom- ers through the provision of a broad range of technologies, and 
thereby contribute to the development of society. In addition, with a focus on the growth of our customers and society at large, we create virtuous cycles that allow for the reinvestment of various resources as we work to realize sustainable growth.” The key to making genuine contributions to the realization of the SDGs is determining whether or not the elements of the SDGs can be incorporated into this business model.  As a first step toward achieving this, we have identified some of the SDGs that we need to address strategically, given the nature of our business and the external environment. Leveraging the digital technology that is at the core of our business, the Fujitsu Group is focused on SDGs 2, 3, 9, and 11 as the areas where it can deliver the greatest value and, accordingly, is advancing business initiatives in these areas.
Yokota: As the SDGs continue to garner attention, we are likely approaching a time in which some companies are weeded out due to the progression of regulations and laws that impact business. With its technologies, products, and services, Fujitsu possesses a broad range of tools that can be utilized to resolve social issues. Accordingly, I think the Company should capitalize on this current trend to pursue new business opportunities. In regard to the efforts that Fujitsu is pursuing at the moment, the Company is working to reduce the environmental burden of its business activities under the “Zero CO2 Emission” initiative, positioning this initiative as one of the pillars of its medium- to long-term environmental vision. I believe this move bears a great deal of significance.
Current Initiatives The Ubiquitous Solutions business comprises the PC business, mobile phone business, and the car navigation systems business.  In the PC business, Fujitsu Client Computing Limited is shifting toward high-value-added products to increase differentiation. In these efforts, the company is focusing on the Fujitsu Group’s strengths—individual customization and security-related products. Since October 2016, a strategic alliance with Lenovo Group Limited has been considered. The goal is to create models that will be competitive in the global market.  Limited is expanding the market share of its established smart- phone business while growing market share in such new markets as Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) devices and corporate- use devices. Distinctive products are being marketed, including the easy-to-use Raku-Raku Smartphone, which targets the senior generation, and mobile phones for children.  Group decided to transfer some of its stake in car electronics manu- facturing subsidiary Fujitsu TEN Limited to DENSO CORPORATION. Stepping up collaboration, Fujitsu TEN and DENSO will strengthen the automotive and mobility IoT businesses.
Fiscal 2016 Business Results and Outlook In fiscal 2016, the Ubiquitous Solutions segment recorded a 1.5% year-on-year decrease in revenue, to ¥1,025.7 billion. In the mobile phone business, revenue declined due to lower mobile phone shipments, which resulted from a lengthening of the replacement cycle in the smartphone market. The revenue of the PC business grew thanks to the steady sales of corporate PCs. Although overseas revenue went down by 7.6%, it was essentially unchanged year on year if the effect of exchange rates is excluded. Reflecting significant improvements in the PC and mobile phone businesses, the business segment posted operating profit of ¥28.7 billion, compared with the previous fiscal year’s operating loss. As well as the beneficial effect of the higher revenue from PCs in the Japanese market, the PC and mobile phone businesses also reduced costs and increased cost efficiencies. Furthermore, the mobilewear business increased earnings.  Looking ahead, the revenue and operating profit of Fujitsu TEN, some of whose shares Fujitsu has decided to sell, will not be included in the Company’s business results in fiscal 2017, the year ending March 31, 2018. The mobile phone business will reinforce existing businesses by acquiring mobile phone models for Raku-Raku Smartphone and for new service plans. At the same time, the business will grow sales in such expanding markets as MVNO and SIM-free corporate-use devices. The PC business aims to increase volume by leveraging Fujitsu’s strengths through customized and security-related products.
* Fujitsu TEN was removed from consolidation as Fujitsu’s equity interest in the company  decreased to 14% following the sale of some of the company’s shares on November 11, 2017.
the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). However, some 
Legibility We have reviewed this report using our ColorSelector tool to choose a highly accessible color combination so that the text and figures are as legible as possible to the widest range of readers.
