enough to gradually address some of the problems that are visible on the surface. I believe we 
Also, ahead of the usage of the supercomputer Fugaku from fiscal 2021, some nodes of the supercomputer—which is being jointly developed by the research institution RIKEN and Fujitsu—are being used on a trial basis to identify candidate therapies, predict droplet transmission of COVID-19 in indoor environments, and conduct other research. These applications of the supercomputer are being conducted by RIKEN in part- nership with Japan’s Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology.
Fujitsu Limited and Consolidated Subsidiaries The Fujitsu Group adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in fiscal 2014. On November 1, 2017, the Company sold some of its shares in Fujitsu TEN Limited to DENSO CORPORATION. Consequently, Fujitsu TEN became classified as a discontinued business and revenue and operating profit were reclassified in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
and some shareholders. Knowing that you are the CEO of 
other words, solving social problems and Fujitsu’s business 
Workstyle Reforms with  Contract/Temporary Staff Under certain requirements such as the use of company-supplied PCs and ensuring a secure working environment, we have already enabled remote working for some contracted and temporary employees, and we plan to gradually expand the scope of this initiative.
For some subsidiaries, we publicly list them with the aim of further improving their business value through diversifica- tion of the capital procurement necessary for sustainable growth and enhancing the value of the entire Group. By publicly listing subsidiaries, it is possible to focus on invest- ment in specific businesses rather than just in the Group as a whole, thus contributing to diversifying investment opportu- nities. As there are some concerns regarding the possibility of a conflict of interest with minority shareholders and our publicly listed subsidiaries, we respect the independence of their management and make efforts to provide advice and support to enhance the corporate value of relevant subsidiar- ies by holding reporting sessions on an as-needed basis. To further promote our policies for Group management, we established a department in February 2020 as a corporate function that specializes in formulating and conducting plans and measures for the most suitable group formation and corporate governance, thus handling the management of the Group including listed subsidiaries.
• Although some improvements in materials for Board of Directors’ meetings were observed, there is room for improvement in the method of information provided and the volume of  the materials.
*1 Complete text of the Fujitsu Group Information Security 
Fujitsu Limited and Consolidated Subsidiaries The Fujitsu Group adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in fiscal 2014. Figures for fiscal 2013 are presented based on both Japanese GAAP and IFRS. On November 1, 2017, the Company sold some of its shares in Fujitsu TEN Limited to DENSO CORPORATION. Consequently, Fujitsu TEN became classified as a discontinued business and net sales (revenue) and operating profit were reclassified in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). However, some sections have presented results under the Japanese accounting standard for the purpose of year-on-year comparison. These sections are indicated in the report.
