Aligning the Direction of  All Fujitsu Group Employees My declaration that Fujitsu will become a DX company was, of course, a statement informing customers of our effort to become partners in digital transformation. However, even more than that, it was born out of a desire to make the declaration a slogan for Fujitsu Group employees to share the same circumstances and goals, and then to change the status quo.  had become diluted and their objectives had diverged, in the same way that I, as a former engineer, had only known of systems for financial institutions. Employees designing IT systems, employees developing high-performance comput- ers, and employees developing 5G network devices, for example, have perspectives that only include their own operations and customer needs. In other words, their goals may have become misaligned from that of the Group. I fear that such discrepancy of purpose among employees is hin- dering Fujitsu’s transformation. Going forward, for the Fujitsu Group to provide value to customers amid global competition, it must heighten its ability to empathize with society and eliminate the organizational structures and cultures that create such different objectives.  The management’s duty is to communicate to Group employees a sense of urgency, its commitment to transfor- mation, and the direction of the Group. Declaring that Fujitsu will become a DX company, I am determined to align the Fujitsu Group’s outstanding management capital and business activities for a clear objective.
Fujitsu Limited and Consolidated Subsidiaries The Fujitsu Group adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in fiscal 2014. On November 1, 2017, the Company sold some of its shares in Fujitsu TEN Limited to DENSO CORPORATION. Consequently, Fujitsu TEN became classified as a discontinued business and revenue and operating profit were reclassified in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Yokota: I think that position-based human resource man- agement is a very innovative measure. While there may be some difficulties because almost no other Japanese compa- nies have introduced such a measure, I think that the direc- tion is sound. I believe that the process of moving forward while monitoring the extent to which employees utilize position-based human resource management and their sense of satisfaction with it will be important.
With a Meaningful Purpose, Reframe Existing Knowledge to Become a DX Company While products and the pursuit of efficiency remain the foundations of management in Japan, even  profit-driven corporate managers in the United States have begun putting a sense of common good and innovation at the center of their management.  the boundaries of those industries and markets have been blurred by digitalization and, on top of this, markets and business paradigms have changed as innovations merge from a variety of relationships and places. To adapt to this change, it is particularly important for existing companies to determine in which direction to reframe themselves, while taking into account their assets and strengths.  to action. By clarifying why we do something—our purpose—we can channel ourselves toward customer value creation and practices aimed at transformation. Additionally, a sound purpose that customers and society can empathize with helps to build relationships. Knowledge and assets flow through these social- and people-centered ecosystems. In other words, these relational assets will be of great value in the future.  For Fujitsu to change, it has to bring about a shift in its values internally. Based on its customer base cultivated to date through a one-to-one style business and its technological capability, to what extent can Fujitsu boldly transform to an ecosystem based on relationships and places as a platform? I hope that it will create a persuasive purpose and become a DX company through innovation across Fujitsu that includes existing businesses and organizations.
*1  Complete text of the Fujitsu Group Information Security 
On November 1, 2017, the Company sold some of its shares in Fujitsu TEN Limited to DENSO CORPORATION. Consequently, Fujitsu TEN became classified as a discontinued business 
Revenue Solution/SI has been seeing improved performance for business deals related to production management and IoT in the manufacturing sector centering on the auto industry. In the distribution sector, demand for system upgrading has been brisk across a wide range of fields including food wholesale, real estate, construction, and retail. In the public arena, there have been growing numbers of large-scale business deals and projects to conform to legal revisions. As a result of these develop- ments, revenue increased significantly to a record high.  With infrastructure services, revenue expanded in Japan due to the spread of network services and growth in the number of product-related projects in some areas. However, overall revenue declined owing to a drop in sales following the conclusion of projects for large cus- tomers through to the previous fiscal year.
In the server market, the size of the market itself has been shrinking in Japan due to the spread of cloud-based services, but some level of growth is expected, supported by upgrading demand in anticipation of the end of extended support for Windows Server 2008 scheduled for January 2020. Overseas, expansion is expected on growth in emerging markets and increased demand for datacenters. In the network market, the investment poli- cies of telecommunications carriers in and outside Japan have shifted from strengthening infrastructure to rein- forcing service businesses, which has coincided with the decline in facility-related investment. Meanwhile, 5G-related activity has been picking up. We anticipate that future capital investment will be allocated mainly to base stations and core networks.
In the Americas, we are developing a wide range of offerings in addition to system products, including IT peripherals, terminals for industry, and IT services businesses. We do, however, recognize that management resources are dispersed and efficiency is compromised in some areas. We are focus- ing on fields where we can offer added value and promoting the transformation to a business model that can provide solutions to issues facing customers. We will enhance industry-specific services and solutions and provide high-value-added services to our customers. In North America, we will pursue management efficiency by promoting shared functions between the services  business and the network products business. In the North American network business, we will focus on investments in developing operations in growth markets, use other companies’ products to complement our portfolio, and work to actualize customer demand and turn sales around.
This report is for our various stakeholders, including shareholders and other investors, and provides information on non-financial aspects, such as the environment, society, and governance, together with financial information. Through this publication, we aim to communi- cate the Fujitsu Group’s initiatives for business activities and value creation comprehensively and simply.  In our first report since the appointment of our new president in June 2019, we have provided an easy-to-understand explanation of our new Management Direction and tried to describe the president’s thinking underpinning our Management Direction.  as the International Integrated Reporting Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council.  From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, Fujitsu has adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). However, some sections have presented results under the Japanese accounting standard for the purpose of year-on-year comparison. These sections are indicated in the report.
Legibility We have reviewed this report using our ColorSelector tool to choose  a highly accessible color combination so that the text and figures are as legible as possible to the widest range of readers.
