The words “aim,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “counting on,” “is confident,” “development,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future trends,” “guidance,” “intend,” “may,” “might,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “seek,” “should,” “strategy,” “want,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions as they relate to us are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such statements include, for example, those made in the Operating Results section, our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pursuant to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), namely IFRS 7 and related statements in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements; Expected Developments section; Risk Factors section; and other forward-looking information appearing in other parts of this report. To fully consider the factors that could affect our future financial results, both this report and our Integrated Report should be considered, as well as all of our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date specified or the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information that we receive about conditions that existed upon issuance of this report, future events, or otherwise unless we are required to do so by law. 
– Some intellectual property might be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, partners, or other third parties 
Third parties might reverse-engineer or otherwise obtain and use technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we might not be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or utilization. Adverse outcomes to some or all of the claims and lawsuits pending against us might result in the award of significant damages or injunctive relief against us or brought against us in the future that could hinder our ability to conduct our business and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Third parties could require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us, cause product shipment delays, subject our products to injunctions, require a complete or partial redesign of products, result in delays to our customers’ investment decisions, and damage our reputation. Third-party claims might require us to make freely accessible under open source terms one of our products or third-party (non-SAP) software upon which we depend. 
– Adoption of, and conversion to, new business models, leading from upfront payment models to an increase in pay-per-use or subscription-based payment models, thus the respective service period can typically range from one to three years, and in some cases, up to five years 
Technological innovation is necessary to tackle some of the world’s most intractable problems, which are often driven by complexity. With innovative solutions from SAP, we can empower our customers to create a better economy, society, and environment for the world. Together with our vibrant ecosystem of partners, we have an opportunity to execute our vision to “help the world run better and improve people’s lives.” 
Bringing Continuous Innovation to Our Customers SAP solutions touch millions of lives around the world every day. Some users skim the edges of our technology when they use our customers’ services, while others are fully immersed, driving their business forward with integrated applications built on our most advanced SAP technology foundation. Each SAP solution is a powerful standalone application, built to enrich and improve businesses and lives through its specific purpose. But when working together, they are optimized to integrate, learn, and improve themselves in a way that goes beyond basic software and database solutions. 
SAP HANA is our flagship in-memory database. It enables businesses to process and analyze live data and make business decisions based on the most up-to-date information, a requirement of today’s digital economy. The innovative architecture in SAP HANA allows both transactional processing for data capture and retrieval, and analytical processing for business intelligence and reporting. It reduces time-consuming database and data management tasks and underpins intelligent applications that use advanced analytic processing. It includes features such as text analysis, multitenant database containers to support multiple isolated databases in a single SAP HANA system, as well as external machine learning libraries. 
Committing to 100% Renewable Electricity Our commitment to 100% renewable electricity is crucial to making our operations more sustainable. While SAP produces a small amount of renewable electricity through solar panels in some locations, we rely primarily on the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) to achieve our target of 100% renewable electricity. We only invest in Gold Standard RECs, which support renewable energy projects that meet robust criteria in terms of environmental integrity, stakeholder inclusivity, safeguards, and reporting and verification. 
Services revenue combines revenue from professional services, premium support services, and other services such as training services, messaging services, and payment services. Professional services primarily relate to the implementation of our cloud subscriptions and on-premise software products. Our premium support offering consists of high-end support services tailored to customer requirements. Messaging services are primarily transmissions of electronic text messages from one mobile phone provider to another. Payment services are delivered in connection with our travel and expense management offerings. 
Services revenue combines revenue from professional services, premium support services, training services, messaging services and payment services. Professional services primarily relate to the installation and configuration of our cloud subscriptions and on-premise software products. Our premium support offering consists of high-end support services tailored to customer requirements. Messaging services are primarily transmission of electronic text messages from one mobile phone provider to another. Payment services are primarily delivered in connection with our travel and expense management offerings. 
Regarding the Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region, the ECB concludes that the euro area economic expansion in 2018 will continue to be solid and broad-based across countries and sectors. This will, on the one side, be due to private expenditure and consumption growth, supported by lower deleveraging needs and improved labor market conditions, says the ECB. On the other side, it attributes its projections to improvements in corporate profitability and the favorable financing conditions, while euro area exporters could benefit from the ongoing global economic expansion. In central and eastern European countries, the ECB expects economic activity to accelerate in the near term, driven by a rebound in investment and strong private consumption, on the back of improving labor markets and higher absorption of EU funds. Russia, according to the ECB, may lose some of its only recently recovered dynamism in the short term, but growth is expected to resume afterwards, supported by higher oil prices, a stronger ruble, and declining inflation. 
In addition, the employees of various other SAP entities, including SAP España – Sistemas, Aplicaciones y Productos en la Informática, S.A., SAP Belgium NV/SA., SAP Israel, SAP Nederland B.V., SAP Italia Sistemi Applicazioni Prodotti in Data Processing S.p.A., SAP Brasil Ltda, SAP sistemi, aplikacije in produkti za obdelavo podatkov d.o.o.(Slovenia), SAP Romania SRL, SAP Argentina S.A., SAP Svenska Aktiebolag (Sweden), SAP UK Ltd. and SAP Ireland Ltd. are represented by works councils, worker representatives, employee consultation forums and/or unions. In addition, some of these employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. 
Under German law SAP SE’s Supervisory Board members and Executive Board members have a duty of loyalty and care towards SAP SE. They must exercise the standard of care of a prudent and diligent businessman and bear the burden of proving they did so if their actions are contested. Both bodies must consider the interest of SAP SE shareholders and our employees and, to some extent, the common good. Those who violate their duties may be held jointly and severally liable for any resulting damages, unless they acted pursuant to a lawful resolution of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. 
We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In accordance with these requirements, we file reports and furnish other information as a foreign private issuer with the SEC. These materials, including this report and the exhibits thereto, may be inspected and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. The SEC also maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC. This report as well as some of the other information submitted by us to the SEC may be accessed through this Web site. In addition, information about us is available at our Web site: www.sap.com 
In 2003, SAP adopted a Code of Business Conduct that applies to all employees (including all personnel in the accounting and controlling departments), managers and the members of SAP’s Executive Board (including our CEO and CFO). Our Code of Business Conduct constitutes a “code of ethics” as defined in Item 16.B of Form 20-F. Our Code of Business Conduct sets standards for all dealings with customers, partners, competitors and suppliers and includes, among others, regulations with regard to confidentiality, loyalty, preventing conflicts of interest, preventing bribery, data protection and privacy and avoiding anti-competitive practices. International differences in culture, language, and legal and social systems make the adoption of uniform Codes of Business Conduct across an entire global company challenging. As a result, SAP has set forth a master code containing minimum standards. In turn, each company within the SAP Group has been required to adopt a similar code that meets at least these minimum standards, but may also include additional or more stringent rules of conduct. Newly acquired companies also are required to meet the minimum standards set forth in the Code of Business Conduct. SAP amends its Code of Business Conduct as necessary, including in February 2012 and most recently in December 2016. We have made our amended Code of Business Conduct publicly available by posting the full text on our Web site under http://www.sap.com/corporate- en/investors/governance/policies-statutes.epx. 
– Software licenses revenue represents fees earned from the sale or license of software to customers for use on the customer’s premises, in other words, where the customer has the right to take possession of the software for installation on the customer’s premises (on-premise software). Software licenses revenue includes revenue from both the sale of our standard software products and customer-specific on-premise software development agreements. 
– Training services – Messaging services (primarily transmission of electronic text 
receivables according to their default risk, primarily based on the age of the receivable and historical loss experience, but also taking into consideration general market factors that might impact our trade receivable portfolio. We record a general bad debt allowance to record impairment losses for a portfolio of trade receivables when we believe that the age of the receivables indicates that it is probable that a loss has occurred and we will not collect some or all of the amounts due. 
on a percentage of the employees’ salaries or on the amount of contributions made by employees. Furthermore, in Germany and some other countries, we make contributions to public pension plans that are operated by national or local government or a similar institution. 
