 The words “aim,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “counting on,” “is confident,” “development,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future trends,” “guidance,” “intend,” “may,” “might,” “outlook,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” “strategy,” “want,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions as they relate to us are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such statements include, for example, those made in the Operating Results section, our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pursuant to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), namely IFRS 7 and related statements in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements; Expected Developments section; Risk Factors section; and other forward- looking information appearing in other parts of this report. To fully consider the factors that could affect our future financial results, both this report and our Integrated Report should be considered, as well as all of our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date specified or the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information that we receive about conditions that existed upon issuance of this report, future events, or otherwise unless we are required to do so by law. 
– Discriminatory, protectionist, or conflicting fiscal policies and tax laws, such as certain protectionist measures included in the U.S. Tax Reform, which was enacted at the end of 2017, with some provisions still awaiting final regulations to provide guidance on compliance 
– Some intellectual property might be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, partners or other third parties. Third parties might reverse-engineer or otherwise obtain and use 
technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we might not be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or utilization. Adverse outcomes to some or all of the claims and lawsuits pending against us might result in the award of significant damages or injunctive relief against us or brought against us in the future that could hinder our ability to conduct our business and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, brand, business, competitive or financial position, financial performance, profit, and cash flows. Third parties could require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us, cause product shipment delays, subject our products to injunctions, require a complete or partial redesign of products, result in delays to our customers’ investment decisions, and damage our reputation. Third- party claims might require us to make freely accessible under open source terms one of our products or third-party (non-SAP) software upon which we depend. 
As we continue to grow organically and through acquisitions, deliver a full portfolio of solutions via the cloud, host or manage elements of our customers’ businesses in the cloud, process large amounts of data, and offer more mobile solutions to users, in each case either directly or through partners and other third parties, we face a progressively more complex and threatening cybersecurity environment. The severity of the challenges posed by this cybersecurity environment is amplified due to the increasingly sophisticated and malicious global cybersecurity threat landscape in which we operate, including third-party data, products, and services that we incorporate into SAP products and services, and the continually evolving and increasingly advanced techniques employed by threat actors targeting IT products and businesses in general. Such threat actors include, but are not limited to, highly sophisticated parties such as nation-states and organized criminal syndicates. As a leading cloud company and service provider to some of the largest and best-known customers in the world, we are naturally a prominent target for cybersecurity attacks. We have observed increased threat activity to our products and systems, and we experience cybersecurity attacks of varying types and degrees on a regular basis. When we become aware of unauthorized access to our systems, we take steps intended to identify and remediate the source and impact of the incursions, and steps to comply with related necessary notification and disclosure obligations. To date, none of the incursions identified have had a material adverse effect on our business. However, we do not have visibility into all unauthorized incursions and our systems may be experiencing 
To expand our business, we acquire businesses, products, and technologies, and we expect to continue doing so in the future. Over time, some of these acquisitions have increased in size and in strategic importance for SAP. Management negotiation of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses, products, or technologies demands time, focus, and resources of both management and the workforce, and exposes us to unpredictable operational difficulties. 
AI functionality has been integrated into some of our product portfolio to provide intelligent capabilities in SAP S/4HANA as well as SAP Customer Experience, SAP Concur, SAP Fieldglass, and SAP SuccessFactors solutions, among others. We have continued to broaden AI integration throughout our software portfolio. 
During a routine cybersecurity review in the first half of 2020, we identified that some of our cloud products did not meet one or more contractually agreed or statutory IT security standards. All identified gaps were resolved by July 2020. 
– Offer service organization control (SOC) reports – such as SOC 1 Type II/ISAE 3402 and SOC 2 Type II/ISAE 3000 – to provide insights into the design and operating effectiveness of internal control systems implemented within cloud delivery units – Let external, internationally accredited auditors assess and certify our cloud services according to various reporting standards and ISO certifications, such as 9001, 27001, 27017, 27018, and 22301, in addition to BS 10012 In the first half of 2020, we identified that some of our cloud products did not meet one or more contractually agreed or statutory IT security standards. All identified gaps were resolved by July 2020. For more information, see the Risk Factors section, specifically the Operational Business Risks subsection. In addition, some SAP cloud services also comply with regional or industry-specific standards, for example: ▪ Cloud Computing Compliance Controls Catalogue (C5) from the German Federal Office for Information Security (BSI); BSI C5 
Services revenue decreased €431 million, or 9%, from €4,541 million in 2019 to €4,110 million in 2020. The revenue decrease was caused mainly by the investment decisions on some major customer projects and COVID-19-related limitations in personal contacts. 
€4,110 million in 2020 (2019: €4,541 million). The cost of services declined 13% to €3,178 million (2019: €3,662 million). Our gross margin on services, defined as services profit as a percentage of services revenue, increased to 22.7% (2019: 19.4%). These developments are primarily due to COVID-19-related limitations in personal customer contacts and a correspondingly high remote delivery share of the consulting services. The current challenging economic environment influenced the investment decisions on some big customer projects. As our service business trends away from traditional software licensing and consulting revenue toward more subscription revenue from cloud solutions, we continue to invest by expanding capacities to meet the higher demand. 
premium support services, and other services such as training services and messaging services. Consulting services primarily relate to the implementation of our cloud subscriptions and on- premise software products. Our premium support offering consists of high-end support services tailored to customer requirements. Messaging services are primarily the transmission of electronic text messages from one mobile phone provider to another. 
Japan to continue in 2021, albeit at a moderate pace. A third supplementary budget for the fiscal year 2020 should provide some additional support in the coming months. China, on the other hand, could account for about half of the region’s post-pandemic recovery, 
Committee. The represented unions negotiate agreements with each of SAP France/SAP France Holding and SAP Labs France SAS. For Concur (France) SAS the agreements are negotiated with the Economic and Social Committee. In addition, the employees of various other SAP entities, including SAP España – Sistemas, Aplicaciones y Productos en la Informática, S.A., SAP Belgium NV/SA., SAP Israel, SAP Nederland B.V., SAP Italia Sistemi Applicazioni Prodotti in Data Processing S.p.A., SAP China Beijing, all entities in the Czech (Republic (SAP ČR, spol. s r.o., SAP Services s.r.o., Ariba Czech s.r.o. and Concur Czech (s.r.o.)), SAP Brasil Ltda, SAP Korea Ltd. (Korea), SAP Slovensko s.r.o. (Slovakia), SAP sistemi, aplikacije in produkti za obdelavo podatkov d.o.o.(Slovenia), SAP Romania SRL, SAP Argentina S.A., SAP Svenska Aktiebolag (Sweden), SAP UK Ltd. and SAP Ireland Ltd. are represented by works councils, worker representatives, employee consultation forums and/or unions. In addition, some of these employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. 
Under German law SAP SE’s Supervisory Board members and Executive Board members have a duty of loyalty and care towards SAP SE. They must exercise the standard of care of a prudent and diligent businessman and bear the burden of proving they did so if their actions are contested. Both bodies must consider the interest of SAP SE shareholders and our employees and, to some extent, the common good. Those who violate their duties may be held jointly and severally liable for any resulting damages, unless they acted pursuant to a lawful resolution of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. 
all employees (including all personnel in the accounting and controlling departments), managers and the members of SAP’s Executive Board (including our CEO and CFO). Our Code of Business Conduct constitutes a “code of ethics” as defined in Item 16.B of Form 20-F. Our Code of Business Conduct sets standards for all dealings with customers, partners, competitors and suppliers and includes, among others, regulations with regard to confidentiality, loyalty, preventing conflicts of interest, preventing bribery, data protection and privacy and avoiding anti-competitive practices. International differences in culture, language, and legal and social systems make the adoption of uniform Codes of Business Conduct across an entire global company challenging. As a result, SAP has set forth a master code containing minimum standards. In turn, each company within the SAP Group has been required to adopt a similar code that meets at least these minimum standards, but may also include additional or more stringent rules of conduct. Newly acquired companies also are required to meet the minimum standards set forth in the Code of Business Conduct. SAP amends its Code of Business Conduct as necessary, including in February 2012 and December 2016, and most recently in March 2018. We have made our amended Code of Business Conduct publicly available by posting the full text on our Web site under http://www.sap.com/corporate-en/investors/governance/policies- statutes.epx. 
license of software to customers for use on the customer’s premises, in other words, where the customer has the right to take possession of the software for installation on the customer’s premises or on hardware of third-party hosting providers unrelated to SAP (on-premise software). Software license revenue includes revenue from both the sale of our standard software products and customer-specific on-premise-software development agreements. 
We frequently enter into multiple contracts with the same customer. For accounting purposes, we treat these contracts as a single contract if they are entered into at or near the same time and are economically interrelated. We do not combine contracts with closing days more than three months apart because we do not consider them being entered into near the same time. Judgment is required in evaluating whether various contracts are interrelated, which includes considerations as to whether they were negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective, whether the amount of consideration on one contract is dependent on the performance of the other contract, or if some or all goods in the contracts are a single performance obligation. 
Amounts for domestic and foreign defined contribution plans are based on a percentage of the employees’ salaries or on the amount of contributions made by employees. In Germany and some other countries, we make contributions to public pension schemes that are operated by national or local government or similar institutions. Expenses for such local state pension plans are recognized as short- term employee benefits, that is, social security expenses. 
