The words “aim,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “counting on,” “is confident,” “development,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future trends,” “guidance,” “intend,” “may,” “might,” “outlook,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” “strategy,” “want,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions as they relate to us are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such statements include, for example, those made in the Operating Results section, our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pursuant to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), namely IFRS 7 and related statements in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements; Expected Developments section; Risk Factors section; and other forward- looking information appearing in other parts of this report. To fully consider the factors that could affect our future financial results, both this report and our Integrated Report should be considered, as well as all of our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date specified or the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information that we receive about conditions that existed upon issuance of this report, future events, or otherwise unless we are required to do so by law. 
– Discriminatory, protectionist, or conflicting fiscal policies and tax laws, such as certain protectionist measures included in the U.S. Tax Reform which was enacted at the end of 2017, with some provisions still awaiting final regulations to provide guidance on compliance  
– Some intellectual property might be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, partners, or other third parties.  Third parties might reverse-engineer or otherwise obtain and use 
technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we might not be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or utilization. Adverse outcomes to some or all of the claims and lawsuits pending against us might result in the award of significant damages or injunctive relief against us or brought against us in the future that could hinder our ability to conduct our business and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Third parties could require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us, cause product shipment delays, subject our products to injunctions, require a complete or partial redesign of products, result in delays to our customers’ investment decisions, and damage our reputation. Third- party claims might require us to make freely accessible under open 
As we continue to grow organically and through acquisitions, deliver a full portfolio of solutions via the cloud, host or manage elements of our customers’ businesses in the cloud, process large amounts of data and offer more mobile solutions to users, in each case either directly or through partners and other third parties, we face a progressively more complex and threatening cybersecurity environment. The severity of the challenges posed by this cybersecurity environment is amplified due to the increasingly sophisticated and malicious global cybersecurity threat landscape in which we operate, including third-party data, products, and services that we incorporate into SAP products and services, and the continually evolving and increasingly advanced techniques employed by threat actors targeting IT products and businesses in general. Such threat actors include, but are not limited to, highly sophisticated parties such as nation-states and organized criminal syndicates. As a leading cloud company and service provider to some of the largest and best-known customers in the world, we are naturally a prominent target for cybersecurity attacks. We have observed increased threat activity to our products and systems, and we experience cybersecurity attacks of varying types and degrees on a regular basis. When we become aware of unauthorized access to our systems, we take steps intended to identify and remediate the source and impact of the incursions, and steps to comply with related necessary notification and disclosure obligations. To date, none of the incursions we have identified has had a material adverse effect on our business. However, we do not have visibility into all unauthorized incursions, and our systems may be experiencing ongoing incursions of which we are not aware. In addition, while we are continually taking steps to enhance our cybersecurity defenses, 
Our solutions enable impact at our customers and – through them – in the world. The following are some examples of our impact in various areas. 
Our commitment to 100% renewable electricity is crucial to making our operations more sustainable. While SAP produces a small amount of renewable electricity through solar panels in some locations, we rely primarily on the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) to achieve our target of 100% renewable electricity. We only invest in RECs with very high quality standards, which support renewable energy projects that meet robust criteria in terms of environmental integrity, stakeholder inclusivity, and reporting and verification. 
For the Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region, the ECB reports that growth in the euro area remained weak throughout the year at 1.2%. Some initial signs of stabilization – in line with previous expectations – materialized only toward the end of the year. In central and eastern Europe, economic activity continued to be supported by solid consumer spending despite tight labor markets. The Russian economy performed better than expected in the third quarter of 2019. 
negotiations between the United States and China in the last quarter of 2019 brought about a first trade deal and hopes of de-escalation, but trade tensions between the United States on the one side and the EU and Latin America on the other side remained unsolved. In Brazil, despite some improvements in early 2019 and against expectations, growth remained fragile throughout the year. 
premium support services, and other services such as training services and messaging services. Consulting services primarily relate to the implementation of our cloud subscriptions and on- premise software products. Our premium support offering consists of high-end support services tailored to customer requirements. Messaging services are primarily the transmission of electronic text messages from one mobile phone provider to another. 
We acquired Qualtrics on January 23, 2019, as the leading provider of Experience Management (XM) solutions. The product portfolio comprises the Qualtrics XM Platform, which is designed to help organizations measure, prioritize, and optimize the four core experiences of business – customer, product, employee, and brand – on one platform. The Qualtrics segment, however, does not comprise the full impact of the acquisition since some functions of Qualtrics have already been integrated into SAP’s corporate functions. 
December 2019 Economic Bulletin.1) The main influences will be a deceleration of growth in advanced economies and China, and a moderate recovery in some emerging economies (even if less dynamic than previously expected). 
For the Asia Pacific Japan (APJ) region, the ECB projects that economic activity in Japan will grow moderately over the medium term, but weaken temporarily following the value-added tax hike in October 2019. A recently announced fiscal stimulus package could provide some support to economic growth further ahead. The gradual transition of China to a lower growth path will weigh on the global economy as a whole in the coming years. However, the Chinese economy might pick up marginally in 2021 and 2022, supported by policy actions and the implementation of structural reforms. 
Economic and Social Committee.In addition, the employees of various other SAP entities, including SAP España – Sistemas, Aplicaciones y Productos en la Informática, S.A., SAP Belgium NV/SA., SAP Israel, SAP Nederland B.V., SAP Italia Sistemi Applicazioni Prodotti in Data Processing S.p.A., SAP China Beijing, all entities in the Czech (Republic (SAP ČR, spol. s r.o., SAP Services s.r.o., Ariba Czech s.r.o. and Concur Czech (s.r.o.)),SAP Brasil Ltda, SAP Korea Ltd. (Korea), SAP Slovensko s.r.o. (Slovakia), SAP sistemi, aplikacije in produkti za obdelavo podatkov d.o.o.(Slovenia), SAP Romania SRL, SAP Argentina S.A., SAP Svenska Aktiebolag (Sweden), SAP UK Ltd. and SAP Ireland Ltd. are represented by works councils, worker representatives, employee consultation forums and/or unions. In addition, some of these employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. 
their actions are contested. Both bodies must consider the interest of SAP SE shareholders and our employees and, to some extent, the common good. Those who violate their duties may be held jointly and severally liable for any resulting damages, unless they acted pursuant to a lawful resolution of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In accordance with these requirements, we file reports and furnish other information as a foreign private issuer with the SEC. These materials, including this report and the exhibits thereto, may be inspected and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. The SEC also maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC. This report as well as some of the other information submitted by us to the SEC may be 
all employees (including all personnel in the accounting and controlling departments), managers and the members of SAP’s Executive Board (including our Co-CEOs and CFO). Our Code of Business Conduct constitutes a “code of ethics” as defined in Item 16.B of Form 20-F. Our Code of Business Conduct sets standards for all dealings with customers, partners, competitors and suppliers and includes, among others, regulations with regard to confidentiality, loyalty, preventing conflicts of interest, preventing bribery, data protection and privacy and avoiding anti-competitive practices. International differences in culture, language, and legal and social systems make the adoption of uniform Codes of Business Conduct across an entire global company challenging. As a result, SAP has set forth a master code containing minimum standards. In turn, each company within the SAP Group has been required to adopt a similar code that meets at least these minimum standards, but may also include additional or more stringent rules of conduct. Newly acquired companies also are required to meet the minimum standards set forth in the Code of Business Conduct. SAP amends its Code of Business Conduct as necessary, including in February 2012 and December 2016, and most recently in March 2018. We have made our amended Code of Business Conduct publicly available by posting the full text on our Web site under http://www.sap.com/corporate-en/investors/governance/policies- statutes.epx. 
license of software to customers for use on the customer’s premises, in other words, where the customer has the right to take possession of the software for installation on the customer’s premises or on hardware of third-party hosting providers unrelated to SAP (on-premise software). Software license revenue includes revenue from both the sale of our standard software products and customer-specific on-premise-software development agreements. 
We frequently enter into multiple contracts with the same customer. For accounting purposes, we treat these contracts as a single contract if they are entered into at or near the same time and are economically interrelated. We do not combine contracts with closing days more than three months apart because we do not consider them being entered into near the same time. Judgment is required in evaluating whether various contracts are interrelated, which includes considerations as to whether they were negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective, whether the amount of consideration on one contract is dependent on the performance of the other contract, or if some or all goods in the contracts are a single performance obligation. 
Amounts for domestic and foreign defined contribution plans are based on a percentage of the employees’ salaries or on the amount of contributions made by employees. In Germany and some other countries, we make contributions to public pension schemes that are operated by national or local government or similar institutions. Expenses for such local state pension plans are recognized as short- term employee benefits, that is, social security expenses. 
The Qualtrics segment derives its revenues mainly from the sale of experience management cloud solutions (offerings of Qualtrics) that run front-office functions across the experience data and from the sale of related services. Before we acquired Qualtrics on January 23, 2019, this segment was called Customer Experience and included our customer experience offerings. Following the Qualtrics acquisition, we combined our existing customer experience solutions with the Qualtrics business and renamed the Customer Experience segment to Customer and Experience Management. The customer experience offerings continued to belong to this segment until they became part of the Applications, Technology & Services segment in October 2019 through splitting and partial integration into other company functions. The segment was thereafter renamed to Qualtrics. The expenses reflected in the Qualtrics segment, however, do not comprise the full impact of the acquisition due to the fact that some functions of Qualtrics mostly affecting general and administration expense have already been integrated into SAP’s corporate functions. There are no prior-period numbers for the Qualtrics segment presented, since we acquired Qualtrics on January 23, 2019. 
