The words “aim,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “counting on,” “is confident,” “development,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future trends,” “guidance,” “intend,” “may,” “might,” “outlook,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” “strategy,” “want,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions as they relate to us are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such statements include, for example, those made in the Operating Results section, our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pursuant to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), namely IFRS 7 and related statements in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements; Expected Developments section; Risk Factors section; and other forward- looking information appearing in other parts of this report. To fully consider the factors that could affect our future financial results, both this report and our Annual Report on Form 20-F should be considered, as well as all of our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date specified or the date of this report. We 
– Some intellectual property might be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, partners, or other third parties.  Third parties might reverse-engineer or otherwise obtain and use 
technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we might not be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or utilization. Adverse outcomes to some or all of the claims and lawsuits pending against us might result in the award of significant damages or injunctive relief against us or brought against us in the future that could hinder our ability to conduct our business and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Third parties could require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us, cause product shipment delays, subject our products to injunctions, require a complete or partial redesign of products, result in delays to our customers’ investment decisions, and damage our reputation. Third-party claims might require us to make freely 
As a global software and service provider, SAP is required to comply with local laws wherever SAP does business. With regard to data protection requirements, in May 2016, the EU enacted a “General Data Protection Regulation” (GDPR) with the aim of further harmonizing data protection laws across the EU. Since May 25, 2018, GDPR is applicable law in all EU and EEA member states. Within limits, member states can supplement the GDPR with additional national rules. Some member states have already enacted such laws. 
As we continue to grow organically and through acquisitions, deliver a full portfolio of solutions via the cloud, host or manage elements of our customers’ businesses in the cloud, process large amounts of data and offer more mobile solutions to users, we face a progressively more complex security environment. The complexity of this security environment is amplified due to the increasingly malicious global cybersecurity threat landscape in which we operate, including third-party data, products, and services that we incorporate into SAP products, and the continually evolving and increasingly advanced techniques employed by threat actors targeting IT products and businesses. Such threat actors include, but are not limited to, highly sophisticated parties such as nation- states and organized criminal syndicates. As a leading cloud company and service provider to some of the largest and best- known customers in the world, we are naturally a prominent target and experience cybersecurity attacks of varying types and degrees on a regular basis. As a result, we are subject to risks and associated consequences in the following areas, among others: – Undetected security defects and vulnerabilities – Exposure of our business operations and service delivery due to virtual attack, disruption, damage, and/or unauthorized access, theft, destruction, industrial and/or economic espionage, serious and organized crime, and other illegal activities, as well as violent extremism and terrorism 
We are living in a time of global uncertainty that is caused by massive social change and digital disruption. Some of the world’s greatest challenges can only be addressed by combining technology-driven innovations and corporate leadership. 
through them – in the world. The following are some examples of our impact in various areas. 
memory database, available both on premise and as a service in the cloud. It enables businesses to process and analyze live data and make business decisions based on the most up-to-date information, a requirement in today’s digital economy. The innovative architecture in SAP HANA allows both transactional processing for data capture and retrieval, and analytical processing for business intelligence and reporting. It reduces time-consuming database and data management tasks and underpins intelligent applications that use advanced analytic processing. It includes features such as text analysis, multitenant database containers to support multiple isolated databases in a single SAP HANA system, as well as external machine learning libraries. 
to the fact that we have a more rigorous process to ensure we receive open and direct feedback. Below you can find some of the programs we have implemented to address pain points customers share with us in their feedback. 
Some specific areas where we have received valuable feedback 
Our commitment to 100% renewable electricity is crucial to making our operations more sustainable. While SAP produces a small amount of renewable electricity through solar panels in some locations, we rely primarily on the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) to achieve our target of 100% renewable electricity. We only invest in Gold Standard RECs, which support renewable energy projects that meet robust criteria in terms of environmental integrity, stakeholder inclusivity, and reporting and verification. All of these RECs are 100% EKOenergy label certified, the highest quality energy ecolabel available. 
premium support services, and other services such as training services and messaging services. Professional services primarily relate to the implementation of our cloud subscriptions and on- premise software products. Our premium support offering consists of high-end support services tailored to customer requirements. Messaging services are primarily transmission of electronic text messages from one mobile phone provider to another. 
services, premium support services, and other services such as training services, messaging services, and payment services. Professional services primarily relate to the implementation of our cloud subscriptions and on-premise software products. Our premium support offering consists of high-end support services tailored to customer requirements. Messaging services are primarily transmissions of electronic text messages from one mobile phone provider to another. Payment services are 
 Due to reorganizations in our SAP Digital Business Services in 2017, some employees were reallocated from cloud and software to 
Czech (s.r.o.)),SAP Brasil Ltda, SAP sistemi, aplikacije in produkti za obdelavo podatkov d.o.o.(Slovenia), SAP Romania SRL, SAP Argentina S.A., SAP Svenska Aktiebolag (Sweden), SAP UK Ltd. and SAP Ireland Ltd. are represented by works councils, worker representatives, employee consultation forums and/or unions. In addition, some of these employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. 
Under German law SAP SE’s Supervisory Board members and Executive Board members have a duty of loyalty and care towards SAP SE. They must exercise the standard of care of a prudent and diligent businessman and bear the burden of proving they did so if their actions are contested. Both bodies must consider the interest of SAP SE shareholders and our employees and, to some extent, the common good. Those who violate their duties may be held jointly and severally liable for any resulting damages, unless they acted pursuant to a lawful resolution of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In accordance with these requirements, we file reports and furnish other information as a foreign private issuer with the SEC. These materials, including this report and the exhibits thereto, may be inspected and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. The SEC also maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC. This report as well as some of the other information submitted by us to the SEC may be accessed through this Web site. In addition, information about us is available at our Web site: www.sap.com. 
to all employees (including all personnel in the accounting and controlling departments), managers and the members of SAP’s Executive Board (including our CEO and CFO). Our Code of Business Conduct constitutes a “code of ethics” as defined in Item 16.B of Form 20-F. Our Code of Business Conduct sets standards for all dealings with customers, partners, competitors and suppliers and includes, among others, regulations with regard to confidentiality, loyalty, preventing conflicts of interest, preventing bribery, data protection and privacy and avoiding anti-competitive practices. International differences in culture, language, and legal and social systems make the adoption of uniform Codes of Business Conduct across an entire global company challenging. As a result, SAP has set forth a master code containing minimum standards. In turn, each company within the SAP Group has been required to adopt a similar code that meets at least these minimum standards, but may also include additional or more stringent rules of conduct. Newly acquired companies also are required to meet the minimum standards set forth in the Code of Business Conduct. SAP amends its Code of Business Conduct as necessary, including in February 2012 and December 2016, and most recently in March 2018.We have made our amended Code of Business Conduct publicly available by posting the full text on our Web site under http://www.sap.com/corporate- en/investors/governance/policies-statutes.epx. 
license of software to customers for use on the customer’s premises, in other words, where the customer has the right to take possession of the software for installation on the customer’s premises or on hardware of third-party hosting providers unrelated to SAP (on-premise software). Software license revenue includes revenue from both the sale of our standard software products and customer-specific on-premise-software development agreements. 
We frequently enter into multiple contracts with the same customer that we treat, for accounting purposes, as one contract if the contracts are entered into at or near the same time and are economically interrelated. We do not combine contracts with closing days more than three months apart because we do not consider them being entered into near the same time. Judgment is required in evaluating whether various contracts are interrelated, which includes considerations as to whether they were negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective, whether the amount of consideration on one contract is dependent on the performance of the other contract, or if some or all goods in the contracts are a single performance obligation. 
We also maintain domestic and foreign defined contribution plans. Amounts contributed by us under such plans are based on a percentage of the employees’ salaries or on the amount of contributions made by employees. Furthermore, in Germany and some other countries, we make contributions to public pension plans that are operated by national or local government or similar institutions. 
incomplete because we are still obtaining some information necessary to identify and measure tax-related assets and liabilities. Accordingly, the amounts recognized in our financial statements for these items are provisional as at December 31, 2018. 
corruption compliance program, including additional policy changes and more robust internal controls. SAP has appointed new management in some business units and has increased its compliance staff. Moreover, SAP has banned the use of commissioned business development partners as well as certain sales commission agents in high-risk markets and has undertaken a systematic review of all relationships with state-owned entities and institutions in Africa. We remain fully committed to compliance with all U.S., German, EU, and South African laws, as well as the laws and regulations in every jurisdiction in which SAP operates. 
