Text messaging service development 
Highly speculative; likelihood of being in or near default; some prospect for recovery of principal and interest 
1) Pursuant to Korea’s Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act, owners can exercise certain rights on some shares in accordance with related laws, 
 This report includes forward-looking statements that relate to future events and can be generally identified by phrases containing words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect the Company’s actual results, performance, achievements or financial position, making them materially different from the actual future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.  
Mobile phones are the key product of the IM Division, and the mobile phone industry started with first generation analogue devices in the early 1980s and evolved to second generation digital ones, using technology such as CDMA and GSM, where users could send voice and text messages. Third generation mobile communication standards such as WCDMA allowed users to send photos and videos. Today, fourth generation LTE mobile communication technology with ultra-high-speed data transmission is becoming commonplace and was used in 59% of phones sold in 2020 (Strategy Analytics, February 2021). Fifth generation mobile communication services, which will lead innovation alongside the fourth industrial revolution, were successfully commercialized in Korea and the US and are expanding to Europe and Australia. As a result, sales of 5G smart phones are projected to increase sharply to 610 million units in 2021 from 270 million units in 2020 (Strategy Analytics, December 2020).  The smartphone industry has grown significantly since 2007. In 2020, the smartphone portion of total HHPs was 76%, and the feature phone portion of the total was 24%, with the latter related to demand in developing nations (Strategy Analytics, February 2021). In 2021, the penetration rate of smartphones will reach 52%, slightly increasing from 50% in 2020 (Strategy Analytics, December 2020).  Also, as the smartphone market shows high saturation, the importance of competitive software and services—such as applications, UX, mobile payments, AI, and AR—is rising alongside that of competitive hardware, which includes high- performance APs, AMOLED displays, foldable form factors, multiple cameras, sensors, waterproof & dustproof features, biometric recognition, and more.   Market Condition 
□ ISOCELL Plus, technology improving image sensors (some products) 
1. Note on forward-looking statements  This annual report includes forward-looking statements that relate to future events and can be generally identified by phrases containing words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect our actual results, performance, achievements or financial position, making them materially different from the actual future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise specified, all data presented in this report is from our consolidated financial statements.  
