The Division is focused on meeting market demand by enhancing product differentiation via seamless integration of key features from various product categories.  The Division expects mobile phones, digital media devices and personal computers, cameras and other devices to increasingly converge on, and in some cases be replaced by, smartphones and tablets. As a result, it has invested and will continue to invest significantly in research and development in new technologies, products, and services. 
Develop text messaging services 
 This report includes forward-looking statements that relate to future events and can be generally identified by phrases containing words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect the Company’s actual results, performance, achievements or financial position, making them materially different from the actual future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.  
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the annual period beginning on January 1, 2017, and not early adopted by the Company, are as follows: Korean IFRIC 2122, Foreign Currency Transaction and Advance Consideration  According to these enactments, the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part of it) is the date on which an entity initially recognizes the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration. If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the entity shall determine a date of the transaction for each payment or receipt of advance consideration. These enactments will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the enactments to have a significant impact on the financial statements.  Korean IFRS 1109, Financial Instruments  The new standard for financial instruments issued on September 25, 2015 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 with early application permitted. This standard will replace Korean IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The Company will apply the standard for the annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018.   The standard requires retrospective application with some exceptions. For example, the entity is not required to restate prior periods 
amounting to ₩3,199 million was recycled from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2017.  The Company plans to designate long-term equity instruments held for long-term investment purposes, which account for most of the available-for-sale equity instruments, as financial instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Therefore, the Company expects the application of Korean IFRS 1109 on these financial assets will not have a material impact on the financial statements. However, the Company has identified that some available-for-sale equity instruments will have increased profit or loss variability, as they are classified as fair value through profit or loss.  According to Korean IFRS 1109, debt investments for which the contractual terms of cash flows are not solely representing payments of principal and interest, or which are held for trading, are classified as fair value through profit or loss. Equity investments not designated at fair value through comprehensive income are also measured at fair value through profit or loss. As at December 31, 2017, the Company did not have debt or equity investments classified as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss. 
(d) Hedge Accounting  Hedge accounting mechanics (fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations) required by Korean IFRS 1039 remains unchanged in Korean IFRS 1109, however, the new hedge accounting rules will align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with the Company’s risk management practices. As a general rule, more hedge relationships may be eligible for hedge accounting, as the standard introduces a more principles-based approach. Korean IFRS 1109 allows more hedging instruments and hedged items to qualify for hedge accounting, and relaxes the hedge accounting requirement by removing two hedge effectiveness tests: the prospective test to ensure that the hedging relationship is expected to be highly effective and the quantitative retrospective test (within range of 80~125%) to ensure that the hedging relationship has been highly effective throughout the reporting period.  With the implementation of Korean IFRS 1109, volatility in profit or loss may be reduced as some items that were not eligible as hedged items or hedging instruments under Korean IFRS 1039 are now eligible under Korean IFRS 1109.  When the Company first applies Korean IFRS 1109, it may choose its accounting policy to continue to apply all of the hedge accounting requirements of Korean IFRS 1039 instead of the requirements of Korean IFRS 1109.  With the implementation of Korean IFRS 1109, the Company has aligned the application of hedge accounting requirements more closely with risk management practices. It is expected that the impact of adopting Korean IFRS 1109 will not be significant.   
As a result of analyzing the agreement terms, the Company considers the revenue from custom-order semiconductor supply contracts with no alternative use and an enforceable right to payment should be recognized over time. The adoption of Korean IFRS 1115 is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.   (d) Variable consideration    According to Korean IFRS 1115, the Company shall recognize a refund liability if the entity receives consideration from a customer and expects to refund some or all of the consideration to the customer. The Company recognizes an asset (refund asset) for the Company’s right to recover the products from the customer when the refund liability is paid.   The Company considers that the refund asset should be classified and presented separately from the refund liability. The adoption of Korean IFRS 1115 is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.  Enactment of Korean IFRS 1116, Leases   Korean IFRS 1116 Leases issued on May 22, 2017 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. This standard will replace Korean IFRS 1017 Leases, Interpretation 2104 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, Interpretation 2015 Operating Leases-Incentives, and Interpretation 2027 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.  At inception of a contract, the Company shall assess whether the contract is, or contains, a lease. Also, at the date of initial application, the Company shall assess whether the contract is, or contains, a lease in accordance with the standard. However, the Company will not need to reassess all contracts with applying the practical expedient because the Company elected to apply the practical expedient only to contracts entered before the date of initial application.  For a contract that is, or contains, a lease, the Company shall account for each lease component within the contract as a lease separately from non-lease components of the contract. A lessee is required to recognize a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. The lessee may elect not to apply the requirements to short-term leases (a lease term of 12 months or less at the commencement date) and low value assets (e.g. underlying assets below $5,000). In addition, as a practical expedient, the lessee may elect, by class of underlying asset, not to separate non-lease components from lease components, and instead account for each lease component and any associated non-lease components as a single lease component.  The accounting standard as a lessor did not change significantly from Korean IFRS 1017 Leases.  (a) Lessee accounting  A lessee shall apply this standard to its leases either: a) retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented applying Korean IFRS 1008 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors (Full retrospective application) or b) retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognized at the date of initial application. The Company has not yet elected an adoption method.  The Company is in the process of performing a preliminary assessment of potential financial impact of applying Korean IFRS 1116 to the 2017 financial statements.   (b) Lessor accounting  When applying Korean IFRS 1116, the Company does not expect the enactments to have a significant impact on the financial statements as the accounting standard as a lessor did not change significantly from IFRS 1017.  
companies and organizations presented the document in support of the Company. Apple filed a dissenting document on July 29, 2016, and on August 5, 2016, several companies and organizations presented an advocative document. On August, 29, 2016, the Company submitted a rebuttal letter. Oral statements for the appeal were held at the Supreme Court on October 11, 2016. On December 6, 2016, the Supreme Court issued a ruling citing the Company appeal and returned the case to the Court of Appeals. On February 7, 2017, the Court of Appeals reversed the case to the Court of First Trial. On October 12, 2017, the Court of First Instance held a court hearing on the necessity of retrial and decided to proceed with a design retrial on October 22, 2017.  Additionally, on May 5, 2014, the jury at the District Court for the Northern District of California in another ongoing patent lawsuit determined that the Company partially infringed Apple’s utility patent and should pay damages to Apple. On November 25, 2014, the first trial judgment was pronounced to confirm the jury’s verdict. The Company appealed on November 25, 2014 and the rehearing was held on January 5, 2016. On August 27, 2014, the Judge denied Apple’s request for a permanent injunction on the Company’s product. However, on September 17, 2015, the appellate court reversed and remanded a previous decision and on December 16, 2015, the Federal Circuit Court denied an en banc hearing request of the Company. On January 18, 2016, the Court of First instance ordered a permanent injunction on the Company’s product. On February 26, 2016, a panel of appellate court reversed the first trial judgment of November 25, 2014 and ruled that the Company had not infringed Apple’s some patents and its remaining patents were invalid. On March 30, 2016, Apple filed a petition for an en banc rehearing about the rulings of the panel. On October 7, 2016, the en banc appellate court reversed the panel rulings, affirming the first trial judgment that the Company had infringed Apple’s patent. On March 10, 2017, the Company appealed to the Supreme Court against the rulings of the en banc appellate Court. On October 4, 2017, the US Department of Justice filed with the Supreme Court a legal advice letter against the company’s appeal. On November 6, 2017, the Supreme Court dismissed the appeal. On January 11, 2018, the Court of First Trial held a court hearing on whether to recognize additional damages.  The final conclusion and the effect of the patent lawsuits with Apple are uncertain as at the reporting date.  In August 2014, the Company and Apple reached an agreement to withdraw from ongoing litigation in all regions other than the United States, and the Company has withdrawn all non-United States based lawsuits. 
including civil claims from some overseas buyers for price-fixing related to the sale of TFT-LCD. Although the outflow of resources and timing of these matters are uncertain, the Company believes the outcome will not have a material impact on the financial condition of the Company. 
1. Note on Forward-Looking Statements  This annual report includes forward-looking statements that relate to future events and can be generally identified by phrases containing words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect our actual results, performance, achievements or financial position, making them materially different from the actual future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise specified, all data presented in this report is from our consolidated financial statements.  
The sale of the Business is expected to be completed within 1 year, upon completion of the conditions set out in the Agreement (Schedule of the completion is subject to change).  ※ Following the completion of the transaction, some details of the disclosed information have been updated, including schedules. The sale of the Business was completed on November 1, 2017, with the completion of the conditions set out in the Agreement which include the approvals of the combination of enterprises from countries concerned with this transaction (South Korea, U.S., EU, China, etc.). 
Additionally, on May 5, 2014, the jury at the District Court for the Northern District of California in another ongoing patent lawsuit determined that the Company partially infringed Apple’s utility patent and should pay damages to Apple. On November 25, 2014, the first trial judgment was pronounced to confirm the jury’s verdict. The Company appealed on November 25, 2014 and the rehearing was held on January 5, 2016. On August 27, 2014, the Judge denied Apple’s request for a permanent injunction on the Company’s product. However, on September 17, 2015, the appellate court reversed and remanded a previous decision and on December 16, 2015, the Federal Circuit Court denied an en banc hearing request of the Company. On January 18, 2016, the Court of First instance ordered a permanent injunction on the Company’s product. On February 26, 2016, a panel of appellate court reversed the first trial judgment of November 25, 2014 and ruled that the Company had not infringed Apple’s some patents and its remaining patents were invalid. On March 30, 2016, Apple filed a petition for an en banc rehearing about the rulings of the panel. On October 7, 2016, the en banc appellate court reversed the panel rulings, affirming the first trial judgment that the Company had infringed Apple’s patent. On March 10, 2017, the Company appealed to the Supreme Court against the rulings of the en banc appellate Court. On October 4, 2017, the US Department of Justice filed with the Supreme Court a legal advice letter against the company’s appeal. On November 6, 2017, the Supreme Court dismissed the appeal. On January 11, 2018, the Court of First Trial held a court hearing on whether to recognize additional damages. 
(2) The Company is involved in claims, disputes, and investigations conducted by regulatory bodies at the reporting date, including civil claims from some overseas buyers for price-fixing related to the sale of TFT-LCD. Although the outflow of resources and timing of these matters are uncertain, the Company believes the outcome will not have a material impact on the financial condition of the Company. 
