Highly speculative; likelihood of being in or near default; some prospect for recovery of principal and interest 
Note: Pursuant to Korea’s Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act, shareholders with limited voting rights (D) can exercise      certain rights on some shares in accordance with related laws, including the right to vote on agendas such as the appointment or 
 This report includes forward-looking statements that relate to future events and can be generally identified by phrases containing words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect the Company’s actual results, performance, achievements or financial position, making them materially different from the actual future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. 
The mobile phone industry started with first generation analogue phones in the early 1980s and evolved to second generation digital ones, using technology such as CDMA and GSM, where users could send voice and text messages. Third generation mobile communication standards such as WCDMA allowed users to send photos and videos. Today, fourth generation LTE mobile communication technology with ultra-high-speed data transmission is becoming commonplace and is used in 76% of phones sold in 2019 (Strategy Analytics, November 2019). Fifth generation mobile communication services, which will lead innovation alongside the fourth industrial revolution, were successfully commercialized in Korea and the US and are expanding to Europe and Australia. Sales of 5G smart phones are projected to reach 160 million units in 2020 (Strategy Analytics, November 2019).  The smartphone industry has grown significantly since 2007. In 2019, the smartphone portion of total HHPs is expected to reach 77%. The feature phone portion of the total remained flat at 23% led by demand markets in developing nations (Strategy Analytics, December 2019). In 2020, the penetration rate of smartphones will reach 51%, slightly increasing from 49% in 2019 (Strategy Analytics, December 2019).  Also, as the smartphone market shows high saturation, the importance of competitive software and services—such as applications, UX, mobile payments, AI, and AR—is rising alongside that of competitive hardware, which includes high- performance APs, AMOLED displays, multiple cameras, sensors, waterproof & dustproof features, and biometric recognition.   Market Condition 
In the DRAM market, inventory corrections in 2019, mainly by data centers, was behind weak demand from some customers, but a recovery is expected in 2020. Although external factors such as the US-China trade conflict tightened export regulations add to uncertainty, we plan to expand our market share by gaining an early edge in the market for high- density memory for new CPUs and by addressing expansion of the 5G smartphone market in a timely manner.   Overall NAND demand has been bolstered by rising demand for SSDs in the growing cloud services market and a trend toward high density in the PC market alongside demand linked with the expansion of 5G and upcoming launches of new game consoles. Declines in ASP due to a supply glut are expected to soften.  < Market share of the Semiconductor Business’ main product > 
(1) As of December 31, 2019, the Company is involved in claims, disputes, and investigations conducted by regulatory bodies, including civil claims from some overseas buyers for price-fixing related to the sale of TFT-LCD. Although the outflow of resources and timing of these matters are uncertain, the Company believes the outcome will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial position of the Company.  
Litigation  - The Company is involved in claims, disputes, and investigations conducted by regulatory bodies at the reporting date, including civil claims from some overseas buyers for price-fixing related to the sale of TFT-LCD. Although the outflow of resources and timing of these matters are uncertain, the Company believes the outcome will not have a material impact on the financial condition of the Company. 
 1. Note on forward-looking statements  This annual report includes forward-looking statements that relate to future events and can be generally identified by phrases containing words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect our actual results, performance, achievements or financial position, making them materially different from the actual future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise specified, all data presented in this report is from our consolidated financial statements.  
(1) The Company is involved in claims, disputes, and investigations conducted by regulatory bodies at the reporting date, including civil claims from some overseas buyers for price-fixing related to the sale of TFT-LCD. Although the outflow of resources and timing of these matters are uncertain, the Company believes the outcome will not have a material impact on the financial condition of the Company. 
Regarding matters related to Milk Music, on August 23, 2019, the Company was subject to correction measures and ordered to pay a fine of KRW 0.5 million by the Fair Trade Commission for violating Duty to Provide Online Completion Service in accordance to Article 5 Paragraph 4 and Cybermall Operators’ Indication Duty in accordance to Article 10 Paragraph 1 of the Act on the Consumer Protection in Electronic Commerce, etc.; and the Company subsequently paid the fine. To ensure compliance with relevant regulations, the Company has strengthened internal management standard and provides preventive education to employees to prevent unfair trade practices and advertising.  The Fair Trade Commission filed a complaint against Chairman Kun-hee Lee on November 21, 2018 for omitting Samoo Architects & Engineers and Seoyoung Engineering from Samsung affiliates when submitting required materials in 2014 under Article 14-4 of the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act. The prosecution filed a summary indictment and Chairman Kun-hee Lee was ordered to pay a fine of KRW 100 million by the Seoul Central District Court on April 18, 2019, and the fine was subsequently paid.   Special prosecutor investigating an influence-peddling scandal involving South Korea’s president has indicted five of the Company’s executives (Jae-yong Lee, Vice Chairman, Gee-sung Choi, former Vice Chairman, Choong-ki Chang, former President, Sang-jin Park, former President, and Seong-soo Hwang, former Senior Vice President) on allegations of violating the Act on the Aggravated Punishment, etc. of Specific Economic Crimes (embezzlement) on February 28, 2017. The Seoul Central District Court found them partially guilty on the charges on August 25, 2017, and sentenced Vice Chairman Jae-yong Lee to five years in jail, former Vice Chairman Gee-sung Choi to four years in jail, former President Choong-ki Chang to four years in jail. Former President Sang-jin Park received a three-year jail term, suspended for five years, and former Senior Vice President Seong-soo Hwang was sentenced to two and a half years, suspended for four years. On February 5, 2018, the Seoul High Court reversed the first trial judgment and Vice Chairman Jae-yong Lee was suspended for four years and former Vice Chairman Gee-sung Choi, former President Choong-ki Chang, former President Sang-jin Park, and former Senior Vice President Seong-soo Hwang were suspended for two years each. On August 29, 2019, the Supreme Court rejected part of the lower court’s ruling on bribery and violation of the Act on the Aggravated Punishment (embezzlement), and ordered a retrial to the Seoul High Court.  A retrial is currently in process, and the Company will check on future developments of the court proceedings and relevant matters.   Seoul Central District Court on December 17, 2019 handed down a fine and sentences on allegations that employees of SEC and its subsidiary Samsung Electronics Service colluded with employees of a partner company, devising and executing a union busting strategy in violation of Article 81, 90, etc. of the Trade Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act.  Samsung Electronics Service was ordered to pay a fine of KRW 74 million. For SEC, the court ordered prison terms for: the Company’s Chairman of the Board (37 service years) of 1 year and 6 months; Executive Vice President A (28 service years) of 1 year and 6 months; former Executive Vice President B of 1 year and 6 months and a 3-year suspended sentence; Executive Vice President C (33 service years) of 1 year and a 2-year suspended sentence; former Executive Vice President D of 1 year and 6 months and a 3-year suspended sentence; Senior Vice President E (31 service years) of 1 year; Senior Vice President F (23 service years) of 1 year and 6 months and a 3-year suspended sentence ; Vice President G (25 service years) of 1 year and a 3-year suspended sentence; Vice President H (16 service years) of 1 year and a 2-year suspended sentence; For Samsung Electronics Service, the court ordered prison terms for: former CEO (4 service years) of 1 year and 6 months; Senior Vice President I (9 service years) of 1 year and 2 months; Vice President J (21 service years) of 1 year and a 2-year suspended sentence. Samsung Electronics and some of the employees previously charged were pronounced innocent. An appeal against the decision has been filed. The Company will check on future developments of the court proceedings and relevant matters.   On December 9, 2019, the Seoul Central District Court ruled on allegations that an SEC executive ordered executives and employees of Samsung Biologics and Samsung Bioepis to hide/destroy evidence related to the alleged fraudulent accounting. For violating Article 30, 31-1, and 155-1 of the Criminal Act, Executive Vice President K (27 service years) was sentenced to 1 years and 6 months in prison; Executive Vice President L (31 service years) was sentenced to 1 year and 6 months in prison and a 3-year suspended sentence; Executive Vice President M (9 service years) was sentenced to 2 years in prison; Vice President N (16 service years) was sentenced to 1 year and 6 months in prison and a 3-year 
