Text messaging service development 
Highly speculative; likelihood of being in or near default; some prospect for recovery of principal and interest 
 This report includes forward-looking statements that relate to future events and can be generally identified by phrases containing words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect the Company’s actual results, performance, achievements or financial position, making them materially different from the actual future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.  
In 2019, the penetration rate of mobile phones will reach 80%, slightly increasing from 79% in 2018 (Strategy Analytics, April 2018).  The mobile phone industry started with first generation analogue phones in the early 1980s and evolved to second generation digital ones, using technology such as CDMA and GSM, where users could send voice and text messages. Third generation mobile communication standards such as WCDMA allowed users to send photos and videos. Today, fourth generation LTE mobile communication technology with ultra-high-speed data transmission is becoming commonplace and is used in 76% of phones sold in 2018 (Strategy Analytics, September 2018). Now, fifth generation mobile communication service, which will lead innovation alongside the fourth industrial revolution, is preparing to accelerate commercialization.   The smartphone industry has grown significantly since 2007. In 2019, the smartphone portion of total HHPs is expected to reach 78%. The feature phone portion of the total remained flat at 22% led by demand markets in developing nations (Strategy Analytics, December 2018).  Also, as the smartphone market shows high saturation, the importance of competitive software and services—such as applications, UX, mobile payments, AI, and AR—is rising alongside that of competitive hardware, which includes high- performance APs, AMOLED displays, multiple cameras, sensors, and waterproof & dustproof features.   Market Condition 
including civil claims from some overseas buyers for price-fixing related to the sale of TFT-LCD. Although the outflow of resources and timing of these matters are uncertain, the Company believes the outcome will not have a material impact on the financial condition of the Company. 
 1. Note on forward-looking statements  This annual report includes forward-looking statements that relate to future events and can be generally identified by phrases containing words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect our actual results, performance, achievements or financial position, making them materially different from the actual future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise specified, all data presented in this report is from our consolidated financial statements.  
Additionally, on May 5, 2014, the jury at the District Court for the Northern District of California in another ongoing patent lawsuit determined that the Company partially infringed Apple’s utility patent and should pay damages to Apple. On November 25, 2014, the first trial judgment was pronounced to confirm the jury’s verdict. The Company appealed on November 25, 2014 and the rehearing was held on January 5, 2016. On August 27, 2014, the Judge denied Apple’s request for a permanent injunction on the Company’s product. However, on September 17, 2015, the appellate court reversed and remanded a previous decision and on December 16, 2015, the Federal Circuit Court denied an en banc hearing request of the Company. On January 18, 2016, the Court of First instance ordered a permanent injunction on the Company’s product. On February 26, 2016, a panel of appellate court reversed the first trial judgment of November 25, 2014 and ruled that the Company had not infringed Apple’s some patents and its remaining patents were invalid. On March 30, 2016, Apple filed a petition for an en banc rehearing about the rulings of the panel. On October 7, 2016, the en banc appellate court reversed the panel rulings, affirming the first trial judgment that the Company had infringed Apple’s patent. On March 10, 2017, the Company appealed to the Supreme Court against the rulings of the en banc appellate Court. On October 4, 2017, the US Department of Justice filed with the Supreme Court a legal advice letter against the company’s appeal. On November 6, 2017, the Supreme Court dismissed the appeal. On January 11, 2018, the Court of First Trial held a court hearing on whether to recognize additional damages. On February 15, 2018, the 
(2) The Company is involved in claims, disputes, and investigations conducted by regulatory bodies at the reporting date, including civil claims from some overseas buyers for price-fixing related to the sale of TFT-LCD. Although the outflow of resources and timing of these matters are uncertain, the Company believes the outcome will not have a material impact on the financial condition of the Company. 
