Certain statements contained in this  Annual Report constitute “forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements provide Nokia’s current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any current or historical fact. The words “believe”, “expect”, “expectations”, “anticipate”, “foresee”, “see”, “target”, “estimate”, “designed”, “aim”, “plan”, “intend”, “influence”, “assumption”, “focus”, “continue”, “project”, “should”, “is to”, “will”, “strive”, “may” or similar expressions as they relate to us or our management are intended to identify these forward-looking statements, as well as statements regarding:
In our second pillar – expanding network  sales to select vertical markets – we support  a wide and growing range of organizations  as they evaluate how best to digitalize their operations. Enterprises are increasingly looking at dedicated networks to enable them to have full control over networking solutions that have the characteristics they need for their business. Today we serve approximately 1 000 customers outside of our traditional Communications Service Provider base, bringing connectivity to some of the most complex, fast-moving industries on earth, including a number of new automotive, energy and transportation customers that placed their trust in our technologies in 2018. 
Competition The main competitors in our primary market are Huawei, Ericsson and ZTE, and in some markets we also encounter Samsung. We also compete with technology experts in some of our other market segments, such as Juniper Networks and Cisco in the IP networking and security segments, and Ciena, Adtran and Calix in the optical networks and fixed access segments. Both the optical networks and Nokia Software market segments, as well as the microwave transport market segment remain highly fragmented.
We look to the future to understand essential human needs and the potential barriers to enabling this new human existence. We then use our unique diversity of research intellects, disciplines and perspectives to solve the key complex problems by aiming to discover or invent disruptive innovations that have the power to enable new economic capabilities, new societal behaviors, new business models and new types of services – in other words, to drive human and technological revolutions.
Third, we see an increasing demand for large high-performance networks in some key areas outside the traditional communications service provider space, which we define as select vertical markets. Webscale companies and extra-large enterprises – such as Apple, Facebook, Google, Alibaba and Amazon – are investing in cloud technology and network infrastructure to build these high-performing, secure networks. In addition, other target vertical markets such as energy, transportation and the public sector are investing to build carrier-grade, mission-critical networks.
Pricing and price erosion In 2018, we did not witness a dramatic change in the overall competitive environment in our industry. We did witness some pricing pressure from a small number of large customers funding their 5G entry within their existing budget plans.
Additionally, there are clear regional differences in the ease of protecting and licensing patented innovations. We have seen some licensees actively avoiding making license payments, and some licensors using aggressive methods to collect them; both behaviors have attracted regulatory attention. We expect discussion of the regulation of licensing to continue at both global and regional level. Some of those regulatory developments may be adverse to the interests of technology developers and patent owners, including us.
Targets and recognition In May 2018, we reported on our achievements and current status of the 46 short and long term targets we had set in 2017, including our science-based climate targets (SBTs) accepted in 2017. The table below is a short snapshot of some of our targets which can all be found online at  www.nokia.com/sustainability.
We distribute distributable funds, if any, within the limits set by the Finnish Companies Act as defined below. We make and calculate the distribution, if any, in the form of cash dividends, assets from the fund for invested unrestricted equity, share buy-backs, or in some other form, or a combination of these. There is no specific formula by which the amount of a distribution is determined, 
although some limits set by law are discussed below. The timing and amount of future distributions of retained earnings and/or assets from the fund for invested unrestricted equity, if any, will depend on our future results and financial conditions.
Market developments favoring new technological solutions, such as SDN, could, and virtualization may result in reduced spending for the benefit of our competitors who have, or may have, a stronger position in such technologies. The technological viability of standardized, low-margin hardware products in combination with the virtualization of functions can induce a change in purchase behavior, resulting in favoring other vendors or in higher bargaining power versus Nokia due to more alternative vendors. Additionally, new competitors may enter the industry as a result of acquisitions or shifts in technology. For example, the virtualization of core and radio networks and the convergence of IT and telecommunications may lower barriers of entry for IT companies in the traditional telecommunications industry or they may build up tight strategic partnerships with our traditional competitors. Additionally, some companies, including webscale companies, may drive a faster pace of innovation in telecommunication infrastructure through more collaborative approaches and open technologies across access, backhaul, core and management. If we are unable to respond successfully to competitive challenges in the markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.
Regulatory developments, actions by authorities, or applications of regulations may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property or create intellectual property-related revenue. Any patents or other IPR may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any right granted under our patents may not provide competitive advantages for us. Our ability to protect and monetize our intellectual property may depend on regulatory developments in various jurisdictions and the implementation of the regulations by administrative bodies. Our ability to protect, license or divest our patented innovations may vary by region. In the technology sector generally, certain licensees are actively avoiding license payments, while some licensors are using aggressive methods to collect license payments, with both behaviors attracting regulatory attention. Authorities in various countries have increasingly monitored patent monetization and may aim to influence the terms on which patent licensing arrangements or patent divestments may be executed. Such terms may be limited to a certain country or region; however, authorities could potentially seek to widen the scope and even impose global terms, potentially resulting in an adverse effect on us or limiting our ability to monetize our patent portfolios. 
We also enter into business agreements separately within our business groups which may grant certain licenses to our patents. Some of these agreements may inadvertently grant licenses to our patents with a broader scope than intended, or they may otherwise make the enforcement of our patents more difficult. 
We operate in many jurisdictions around the world, and we are subject to various legal frameworks regulating corruption, fraud, trade policies, and other risk areas. At any given time, we may be subject to inspections, investigations, claims, and government proceedings, and the extent and outcome of such proceedings may be difficult to estimate with any certainty. We may be subject to material fines, penalties and other sanctions as a result of such investigations. Bribery and anti-corruption laws in effect in many countries prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to public officials for the purpose of  obtaining new business or maintaining existing business relationships. Certain anti-corruption laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) also require the maintenance of proper books and records, and the implementation of controls and procedures in order to ensure that a company’s operations do not involve corrupt payments. Since we operate throughout the world, and given that some of our customers are government-owned entities and that our projects and agreements often require approvals from public officials, there is a risk that our employees, suppliers, consultants or commercial third party representatives may take actions that are in violation of our policies and of applicable anti-corruption laws. 
Our workforce has fluctuated over recent years as we have introduced changes in our strategy to respond to our business targets and endeavors. Such changes and uncertainty have caused and may in the future cause disruption and dissatisfaction among employees, as well as fatigue due to the cumulative effect of several reorganizations over the past years, our efforts to continue to evolve our business, and maximize operational efficiency. These efforts might include implementing new organizational structures such as reorganization, strategic changes, M&A activity, competence development, relocation of employees, the closing or consolidation of sites, or insourcing/ outsourcing parts of the business operations. As a result, employee motivation, energy, focus, morale and productivity may be reduced, causing inefficiencies and other problems across the organization resulting in the loss of key employees and increased costs in resolving and addressing such matters. The loss of key employees could result in resource gaps, some of which may only be noticed after a certain period of time or which negatively impact our relationship with customers, vendors or other business partners. Accordingly, we may need to take measures to attract, retain and motivate skilled employees. 
Our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining sufficient quantities of fully functional products, components, sub-assemblies, software and services on a timely basis. Our principal supply requirements for our products are for electronic components, mechanical components and software, which all have a wide range of applications in our products. In certain cases, a particular component or service may be available only from a limited number of suppliers or from a single supplier in the supply chain. Suppliers may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies, change their partner preferences, increase prices, provide poor quality supplies or be unable to adapt to changes in demand due to capacity constraints or other factors, which could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products and services on a timely basis. For example, our efforts to meet our customer needs during major network roll-outs in certain markets may require sourcing large volumes of components and services from suppliers and vendors at short notice and at the same time with our competitors. If we fail to properly anticipate customer demand, an over-supply or under-supply of components and production or services delivery capacity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same contract manufacturers, component suppliers and service vendors. If they have purchased capacity or components ahead of us, or if there is significant consolidation in the relevant supplier base, this could prevent us from acquiring the required components or services, which could limit our ability to supply our customers or increase our costs. 
Our suppliers or a supplier may fail to meet our supplier requirements, such as our and our customers’ product quality, safety, security and other standards. Certain suppliers may not comply with local laws, including, among others, local labor laws. Consequently, some of our products may be unacceptable to us or to our customers. Our products are highly complex and defects in their design, manufacture and associated hardware, 
 ■ our dependence on some of the divested businesses as our suppliers in the future; and 
The level of effort required for successful integration depends on the complexity of the acquired business. Integration process involves certain risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the intended organizational and operational benefits and potentially targeted cost savings related to our business plans in the manner or within the timeframe currently anticipated. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, the distraction of our management’s attention from our business resulting in performance shortfalls, the 
Below we present our 2018 report on our compensation outcomes, and policy for 2019. As we move towards the Finnish implementation of the European Shareholder Rights Directive II (SRD), we reached out to nine of our largest shareholders, to consult with them on our policy and programs. We have made some policy changes for 2019 and we have integrated their feedback on disclosures in the way we have structured this year’s report. We have also taken steps to prepare for the SRD driven disclosures we will need to make in the future.
In 2018, we provided radio, core and transmission equipment, including associated services, to Iranian mobile network operators, Mobile Communications Company of Iran (MCCI) and MTN Irancell, and to one local internet service provider HiWeb. We also provided some services to local fixed networks operators, Telecommunication Company of Iran (TCI) and, through a local prime contractor Maskan va Omran Quds Razavi Company, to Telecommunication Infrastructure Company of Iran (TIC). Also, RFS, a wholly owned subsidiary of NSB, has in 2018 sold wireless infrastructure products through an Iranian distributor, FourSat Kish. Additionally, in 2018, we purchased certain fixed line telephony services from TCI and mobile phone subscriptions from MCCI.
Provided that certain holding period and other requirements are met, certain U.S. Holders (including individuals and some trusts and estates) are eligible for reduced rates of U.S. federal income tax at a maximum rate of 20% in respect of “qualified dividend income”. Dividends that Nokia pays with respect to its shares and ADSs generally will be qualified dividend income if certain holding periods are met and Nokia was neither a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) in the year prior to the year in which the dividend was paid nor in the year in which 
In some arrangements, mainly within the submarine cable business, the Group provides its customer with products in a way that  meets the over time revenue recognition criteria, as the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use,  and the Group has enforceable rights to payment for the work completed to date. In these arrangements, progress is measured  by using the output method, as that is a faithful depiction of how  the customer obtains control of the performance by the Group.  The output measure selected by the Group may vary from each contract depending on the nature of contract. 
Sale of services The Group provides services related to the provision of networking equipment, ranging from managing a customer’s network and product maintenance services to network installation, integration and optimization. Revenue for each separate service performance obligation is recognized as or when the customer obtains the benefits of the Group’s performance. Service revenue is recognized over time for managed and maintenance services, as in these  cases the Group performs throughout a fixed contract term and  the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits  as the Group performs. In some cases, services provided by the Group must be accepted by the Customer after such services are performed. In these cases, revenue is generally recognized when  the Group receives the customer acceptance.  
When the Group grants customers a license to use IP owned by  the Group, the associated license fee revenue is recognized in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements. In the majority of cases, the Group retains obligations to continue to develop and make available to the customer the latest IP in the licensed assets during the contract term, and therefore revenue  is recognized pro rata over the period during which the Group is expected to perform. Recognition of the revenue as pro rata over the term of the license is considered the most faithful depiction  of the Group’s satisfaction of the performance obligation as the  IP being licensed towards the customer includes new inventions patented by the Group that are highly interdependent and interrelated and created through the course of its continuous  R&D efforts. Such R&D efforts are relatively stable throughout the year. In some contracts, the Group has no remaining obligations to perform after granting a license to the initial IP, and licensing fees  are non-refundable. In these cases, revenue is recognized at the beginning of the license term. 
In some arrangements, mainly within the submarine cable business, 
as the Group performs. In some cases, services provided by the 
year. In some contracts, the Group has no remaining obligations to 
In some customer contracts, the timing of revenue recognition  and collection of the consideration are more than a year apart  and therefore may contain a significant financing component  that must be recognized separately from revenue associated  with the arrangement’s performance obligations. In these cases, 
SpaceTime Insight Inc. is a United States-based software company that provides machine learning-powered analytics and IoT applications for some of the world’s largest transportation, energy and utilities organizations. The Group acquired the business of SpaceTime Insight Inc. on April 30, 2018. Goodwill was allocated to Nokia Software operating segment. 
Order backlog As of December 31, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to partially or wholly unsatisfied performance obligations arising from fixed contractual commitments amounted to EUR 21.1 billion. Management estimates that approximately 59% of the unsatisfied performance obligations will be recognized as revenue during 2019, approximately 34% in 2020-2021 and the remainder thereafter. The estimated timing of the satisfaction of these performance obligations is subject to change owing to factors beyond the Group’s control such as customer and network demand, market conditions and, in some cases, restrictions imposed by the weather or other factors impacting project logistics. 
Group’s control such as customer and network demand, market conditions and, in some cases, restrictions imposed by the weather or other 
The level 3 financial assets category includes a large number of investments in unlisted equities and unlisted venture funds, including investments managed by Nokia Growth Partners specializing in growth-stage investing. The fair value of level 3 investments is determined using one or more valuation techniques where the use of the market approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions, while the use of the income approach generally consists of calculating the net present value of expected future cash flows. For unlisted funds, the selection of appropriate valuation techniques by the fund managing partner may be affected by the availability and reliability of relevant inputs. In some cases, one valuation technique may provide the best indication of fair value while in other circumstances multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate. 
relevant inputs. In some cases, one valuation technique may provide the best indication of fair value while in other circumstances multiple 
Asset ceiling limitation IAS19, Employee benefits, limits the amount of pension fund surplus that an entity may recognize to the amount of economic benefit that the entity can realize, either through refunds or as reductions in future contributions. The most significant limitation of asset recognition  for the Group is from the overfunded US formerly represented pension plan. Under IAS 19 and current plan terms, the surplus is treated as belonging to the plans and its participants and cannot be refunded to the sponsoring employer. The surplus is therefore not recognized by the Group as a recoverable pension asset. However, Section 420 of the US tax code (described in the Future Cash Flows section) allows for some portion of the surplus assets to be used to cover some portion of the opeb liabilities. This increases the amount of the asset surplus that is recognizable in the US prepaid pension assets. All other countries where asset ceiling limits apply are not considered material.  The Group recognized an asset ceiling limitation in the amount of EUR 627 million (EUR 499 million in 2017). 
some portion of the surplus assets to be used to cover some portion of the opeb liabilities. This increases the amount of the asset surplus 
(1) Used to hedge the foreign exchange risk from forecasted highly probable cash flows related to sales, purchases and business acquisition activities. In some currencies, especially the U.S. 
(4) Items on the statement of financial position and some probable forecasted cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are hedged by a portion of foreign exchange derivatives not 
(1) Bank Parent Company ratings are used here for bank groups. In some emerging markets countries, actual bank subsidiary ratings may differ from the Parent Company rating. (2) Fixed income and money-market investments include bank deposits, structured deposits, investments in liquidity funds and investments in fixed income instruments. Liquidity funds that invested mainly in bank securities are included under Banks and other liquidity funds are included under Other. Additionally, in 2017, liquidity funds that invested solely in government securities are included under Governments. 
(1) Bank Parent Company ratings are used here for bank groups. In some emerging markets countries, actual bank subsidiary ratings may differ from the Parent Company rating. 
