In the face of fast-rising bandwidth and other performance demands, customers know they need to take an architecture-driven, end-to-end approach that Nokia offers, with a coordinated, holistic view across all elements of the network. And, the work is well underway. In early 2018, we announced an agreement to deliver 5G equipment to Japan’s NTT DOCOMO, kickstarting what we think will be a year of 5G investment and trials with operators around the globe; followed potentially by some deployments towards the end of 2018, with meaningful deployments in 2019. 
Competition The competitors in our primary market are Huawei, Ericsson, and ZTE. We also compete with technology experts in some of our other market segments, such as Juniper Networks and Cisco in the IP networking and security segments, and Ciena, Adtran, and Calix in the optical networks and fixed access segments. Both the optical networks and the applications and analytics market segments are still highly fragmented.
 ■ In Europe, we engaged with all the major operators serving millions of customers. We have extensive R&D expertise in Europe, and some of our largest Technology Centers, which are developing future technologies, are based in this market. We also have a Global Delivery Center (across two locations: Portugal and Romania) and three regional Service Delivery Hubs in Europe (one in Russia and two in Poland). With our strong end-to-end portfolio, Nokia is well positioned in Europe to help maximize the benefits of 5G, IoT and the digital transformation in the local digital ecosystems.
service provider to the leading public and private operators. Collectively, our networks for these operators serve 418 million subscribers across some 459 000 sites with Nokia managing networks supporting 154 million subscribers. In addition, we are a key telecom infrastructure supplier to non-operator segments, including large enterprises, utilities companies, and the Indian defense sector. We are also a strategic telecommunications partner in GSM-Railways technology in India. Nokia’s operations in the country include a Global Delivery Center, a Service Delivery Hub and a Global Technology Center.
Our Webscale / TXLE business saw significant progress during 2017. In Webscale, our business has grown steadily and we now count Facebook, Amazon Web Services (“AWS”), Apple, Xiaomi Baidu, Alibaba and Tencent among our customers and we also work with some of these as partners. We announced a partnership with Amazon Web Services, providing a full suite of services to support service providers in their migration to AWS, a patent agreement with Xiaomi and a business and patent license and business collaboration agreement with Apple. Among our TXLE customers, we include international banks—such as BBVA, Santander, and Crèdit Andorrà—to which we supply software- defined networking and / or software-defined WAN solutions.
Nokia Bell Labs searches for the fundamental limits of what is possible, rather than being constrained by the current state of art. It looks to the future to understand essential human needs and the potential barriers to enabling this new human existence. It then uses its unique diversity of research intellects and disciplines and perspectives to solve the key complex problems by discovering or inventing disruptive innovations that have the power to enable new economic capabilities, new societal behaviors, new business models and new types of services―in other words, to drive human and technological revolutions.
Third, we see an increasing demand for large high-performance networks in some key areas outside the traditional communications service provider space, which we define as our adjacent markets. Webscale companies and extra-large enterprises—such as Apple, Facebook, Google, Alibaba and Amazon—are investing in cloud technology and network infrastructure to build these high-performing, secure networks. In addition, other target vertical markets such as energy, transportation and the public sector are investing in their own network infrastructure, to connect data centers and provide seamless IP interconnection and digital services delivery.
Seasonality and cyclical nature of projects Our Networks business’ sales are affected by seasonality in the network operators’ spending cycles, with generally higher sales in the fourth quarter, followed by generally lower sales in the first quarter. In addition to normal industry seasonality, there are normal peaks and troughs in the deployment of large infrastructure projects. The timing of these projects depends on new radio spectrum allocation, network upgrade cycles and the availability of new consumer devices and services, which in turn affects our Networks’ business sales. As an example, during the last couple of years some of the major LTE deployments have been largely completed. 
Additionally, there are clear regional differences in the ease of protecting and licensing patented innovations. We have seen some licensees actively avoiding making license payments, and some licensors using aggressive methods to collect them; both behaviors have attracted regulatory attention. We expect discussion of the regulation of licensing to continue at both global and regional level. Some of those regulatory developments may be adverse to the interests of technology developers and patent owners, including us.
Targeting zero emissions In terms of our products in use, we have also set an SBT target for scope 3 emissions – and particularly for emissions from customer use of our products. We target to reduce these emissions by 75% by 2030 compared to 2014 baseline, and are currently on track. We also further developed our zero-emissions radio network offering, which now includes some 20 products and services. We explored the use of liquid cooling for base station sites as well as investigating the capacity to capture waste heat from the base stations and use it as useful heat e.g. for heating buildings. We have delivered zero emission products to 120 customers around the world, helping them reduce their emissions. Modernization is a key component to enable greater energy efficiency. In 2017, the customer base-station sites we modernized used on average 44% less energy than those where our customers did not modernize. This reduces the environmental impact of electricity consumption and is directly reflected as increased financial benefits for our customers.
In June 2017, we published our Modern Slavery Statement. While it is often perceived that ICT may enable many activities related to modern slavery, it is our mission to help find ways in which the technology we provide can be used to eradicate modern slavery. We work with others in the industry to identify ways through which we can, as an industry, contribute with concrete solutions to tackling some of the issues related to modern slavery. To this end we co-hosted a multi-stakeholder event to increase the cooperation and dialogue around the role of digital technology in tackling modern slavery. Moving forward, we will also continue to call on other ICT companies to join us in this dialogue. 
We distribute retained earnings, if any, within the limits set by the Finnish Companies Act (as defined below). We make and calculate the distribution, if any, in the form of cash dividends, share buy-backs, or in some other form, or a combination of these. There is no specific formula by which the amount of a distribution is determined, although some limits set by law are discussed below. The timing and amount of future distributions of retained earnings, if any, will depend on our future results and financial conditions.
Additionally, new competitors may enter the industry as a result of acquisitions or shifts in technology. For example, the virtualization of core and radio networks and the convergence of IT and telecommunications may lower the barriers to entry for IT companies entering the traditional telecommunications industry or build up tight strategic partnerships with our traditional competitors. These developments may enable more generic IT, software and hardware to be used in telecommunications networks leading to further pricing pressure. Additionally, some companies, including webscale companies, may drive a faster pace of innovation in telecommunication infrastructure through more collaborative approaches and open technologies across access, backhaul, core and management. If we are unable to respond successfully to competitive challenges in the markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.
Regulatory developments, actions by authorities, or applications of regulations may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property or create intellectual property-related revenue. Any patents or other IPR may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any right granted under our patents may not provide competitive advantages for us. Our ability to protect and monetize our intellectual property may depend on regulatory developments in various jurisdictions and the implementation of the regulations by administrative bodies. Our ability to protect, license or divest our patented innovations may vary by region. In the technology sector generally, certain licensees are actively avoiding license payments, while some licensors are using aggressive methods to collect license payments, with both behaviors attracting regulatory attention. Authorities in various countries have increasingly monitored patent monetization and may aim to influence the terms on which patent licensing arrangements or patent divestments may be executed. Such terms may be limited to a certain country or region; however, authorities could potentially seek to widen the scope and even impose global terms, potentially resulting in an adverse effect on us or limiting our ability to monetize our patent portfolios. 
We also enter into business agreements separately within our business groups which may grant certain licenses to our patents. Some of these agreements may inadvertently grant licenses to our patents with a broader scope than intended, or they may otherwise make the enforcement of our patents more difficult. 
We may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits, synergies, cost savings or efficiencies from acquisitions, including the acquisition of Alcatel Lucent, and we may encounter issues or inefficiencies related to our organizational and operational structure, including being unable to successfully implement our business plans. We acquire businesses or companies from time to time and, for instance, continue to allocate significant resources to the integration of the former Alcatel Lucent business and implementation of our business plans and strategy. Despite our progress in the integration, there can be no assurance that the overall integration of Alcatel Lucent will be successful or yield expected benefits and results. The integration process involves certain risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the intended organizational and operational benefits related to our business plans in the manner or within the timeframe currently anticipated. 
acquired though the Withings acquisition. Competition in the consumer health market is intensifying, and Nokia Technologies needs to continue innovating, building differentiating technologies, and creating competitive health products that respond to consumer needs and deliver on brand promise. In 2017, we faced some quality challenges with some products in the portfolio and they resulted in delayed and/or reduced product sales. There can be no assurances that we are able to reach our targets with respect to growing the business, including being able to successfully make the right strategic bets and investments, including choices for the growth segments, product categories, product portfolio, target consumer segments and geographies, sales and marketing expansion, scaling up the supply chain and manufacturing, and strategic partnerships.
Nokia Technologies has a strategic agreement covering branding rights and intellectual property licensing with HMD Global. Refer to “Overview–Strategy” and “Business Overview–Our businesses–Nokia Technologies” for more information. Under the agreement, Nokia receives royalty payments from HMD Global for sales of Nokia branded mobile phones and tablets, covering both brand and intellectual property rights. As such, the amount of income for Nokia is dependent on the business and success of HMD Global. In 2017, HMD Global continued to ramp up its business and launched the initial devices in its Nokia-branded mobile phone portfolio. For some products, HMD Global had a limited supply for critical components which resulted in reduced sales in some markets and geographies. There can be no assurance that we will successfully reach additional new brand licensing arrangements at all or on terms that prove satisfactory to us. The agreement with HMD Global limits Nokia’s possibilities to license the Nokia brand for certain types of devices over an agreed time and as such limiting Nokia’s licensing possibilities with respect to such devices.
The Nokia Technologies business group develops and licenses various innovations as well as developing its own products and services, including digital health-related products. The manufacturing and selling of devices and services can expose us to risks, including product liability claims, claims from contract manufacturers and/or suppliers, negative consumer feedback and reputational harm. The digital health device portfolio comprises connected health devices, such as scales, watches, trackers, blood pressure monitors, thermometers, sleep and home products. With such products, there exists a possibility of actual or claimed device or software malfunctions which, if realized, could injure or harm users. Some products are subject to regulatory approvals and/or compliance with regulatory standards in countries where such products are sold. Product malfunctions, failure to obtain appropriate regulatory approvals or a failure to comply with regulatory standards may result in product recalls; litigation; claims for compensation; reputational harm; leakage of consumer data; brand deterioration; and/or criminal, civil, or regulatory actions, penalties and/or fines.
We operate in a number of different jurisdictions around the world and we are subject to various legal frameworks regulating corruption, fraud, trade policies, and other risk areas. At any given time we may be subject to inspections, investigations, claims, and government proceedings, and the extent and outcome of such proceedings may be difficult to estimate with any certainty. We may be subject to material fines, penalties and other sanctions as a result of such investigations. Bribery and anti-corruption laws in effect in many countries prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to public officials for the purpose of obtaining new business or maintaining existing business relationships. Certain anti-corruption laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) also require the maintenance of proper books and records, and the implementation of controls and procedures in order to ensure that a company’s operations do not involve corrupt payments. Since we operate throughout the world, and given that some of our clients are government-owned entities and that our projects and agreements often require approvals from public officials, there is a risk that our employees, consultants or agents may take actions that are in violation of our policies and of anti-corruption laws. In many parts of the world where we currently operate or seek to expand our business, local practices and customs may be inconsistent with our policies, including the Nokia Code of Conduct, and could violate anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act 2010, and applicable European Union regulations, as well as applicable economic sanctions and embargoes. Our employees, or other parties acting on our behalf, could violate policies and procedures intended to promote compliance with anti-corruption laws or economic sanctions. Violations of these laws by our employees or other parties acting on our behalf, regardless of whether we had participated in such acts or had knowledge of such acts at certain levels within our organization, could result in us or our employees becoming subject to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification of sales. 
Our workforce has fluctuated over recent years as we have introduced changes in our strategy to respond to our business targets and endeavors. Such changes and uncertainty have caused and may in the future cause disruption and dissatisfaction among employees, as well as fatigue due to the cumulative effect of several reorganizations over the past years, our efforts to continue to evolve our business, maximize operational efficiency and capitalize on the benefits following the acquisition of Alcatel Lucent. These efforts might include implementing new organizational structures such as reorganization, strategic changes, M&A activity, competence development, relocation of employees, the closing or consolidation of sites, or insourcing/outsourcing parts of the business operations. As a result, employee motivation, energy, focus, morale and productivity may be reduced, causing inefficiencies and other problems across the organization resulting in the loss of key employees and increased costs in resolving and addressing such matters. The loss of key employees could result in resource gaps, some of which may only be noticed after a certain period of time or which negatively impact our relationship with customers, 
Additionally, our dependence on third-party suppliers has increased as a result of our strategic decisions to outsource certain activities. Suppliers may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies, change their partner preferences, increase prices, provide poor quality supplies or be unable to adapt to changes in demand due to capacity constraints or other factors, which could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products and services on a timely basis. For example, our efforts to meet our customer needs during major network roll-outs in certain markets may require sourcing large volumes of components and services from suppliers and vendors at short notice and simultaneously with our competitors. If we fail to properly anticipate customer demand, an over-supply or under-supply of components and production or services delivery capacity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same contract manufacturers, component suppliers and service vendors. If they have purchased capacity or components ahead of us, or if there is significant consolidation in the relevant supplier base, this could prevent us from acquiring the required components or services, which could limit our ability to supply our customers or increase our costs. 
We may not be able to secure components on attractive terms from our suppliers or a supplier may fail to meet our supplier requirements, such as our and our customers’ product quality, safety, security and other standards. Certain suppliers may not comply with local laws, including, among others, local labor laws. Consequently, some of our products may be unacceptable to us or to our customers. Our products are highly complex and defects in their design, manufacture and associated hardware, software and content have occurred in the past and may continue to occur in the future. Defects and other quality issues may result from, among other things, failure in our own product manufacturing and service creation and delivery, as well as failure of our suppliers to comply with our requirements, or failures in products and services created jointly with business partners or other third parties where the development and manufacturing process is not fully within our control. Quality issues may cause, for instance, delays in deliveries, loss of intellectual property, liabilities for network 
 ■ our dependence on some of the divested businesses as our suppliers in the future; and 
(2)  In 2014, a minimum payout level was introduced to reinforce the retentive impact of the plan by giving some certainty to remaining employees during the transformation of Nokia following the Sale of the D&S Business and integration of the Nokia Networks business. The 2017 plan removes the minimum payout of 25% of the grant amount for executive employees. Employees who are not executives at the time the awards are granted to them will continue to benefit from a minimum payout of 25% with the intention of this continuing to provide a retention effect.
Provided that certain holding period and other requirements are met, certain U.S. Holders (including individuals and some trusts and estates) are eligible for reduced rates of U.S. federal income tax at a maximum rate of 20% in respect of “qualified dividend income”. Dividends that Nokia pays with respect to its shares and ADSs generally will be qualified dividend income if certain holding periods are met and Nokia was neither a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) in the year prior to the year in which the dividend was paid nor in the year in which the dividend is paid. Nokia currently believes that dividends paid with respect to its shares and ADSs will constitute qualified dividend income for U.S. federal income tax purposes; however, this is a factual matter and is subject to change. Nokia anticipates that its dividends will be reported as qualified dividends on Forms 1099‒DIV delivered to U.S. Holders. U.S. Holders of shares or ADSs are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the availability to them of the reduced dividend tax rate in light of their own particular situation and the computations of their foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualified dividends paid to them, as applicable. 
Recurring service revenue which includes managed services and maintenance services is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the agreed period, unless there is evidence that some other method better represents the rendering of services. 
Revenue on license fees is recognized in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements. In the majority of cases,  the Group retains obligations related to the licensed assets after  the initial licensing transaction, and as a result revenue is recognized over a period of time during which the Group is expected to  perform. Where the Group has no remaining obligations to perform subsequent to the initial licensing transaction, and licensing fees are non-refundable, revenue is recognized after the customer has been provided access to the underlying assets. In some multiple element licensing transactions, the Group applies the residual method in the absence of reference information. 
Revenue recognition The Group enters into transactions involving multiple components consisting of any combination of hardware, services, software and intellectual property rights where the Group identifies the separate components and estimates their relative fair values, considering the economic substance of the entire arrangement. The fair value of each component is determined by taking into consideration factors such as the price of the component when sold separately and the component cost plus a reasonable margin when price references  are not available. The determination of the fair value and allocation thereof to each separately identifiable component requires the use of estimates and judgment which may have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue recognized. In some multiple element licensing transactions, the Group applies the residual method in the absence of reference information. 
The level  financial assets category includes a large number of investments in unlisted equities and unlisted venture funds, including investments managed by Nokia Growth Partners specializing in growth-stage investing and by BlueRun Ventures focusing on early stage opportunities. The fair value of level  investments is determined using one or more valuation techniques where the use of the market approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions, while the use of the income approach generally consists of calculating the net present value of expected future cash flows. For unlisted funds, the selection of appropriate valuation techniques by the fund managing partner may be affected by the availability and reliability of relevant inputs. In some cases, one valuation technique may provide the best indication of fair value while in other circumstances multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate. 
(1) Used to hedge the foreign exchange risk from forecasted highly probable cash flows related to sales, purchases and business acquisition activities. In some currencies, especially the U.S. dollar, the 
(3) Used to hedge net investment exposure. The underlying exposures for which these hedges are entered into are not presented in the table as they are not financial instruments. (4) Items on the statement of financial position and some probable forecasted cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are hedged by a portion of foreign exchange derivatives not designated in a 
(1) Bank Parent Company ratings are used here for bank groups. In some emerging markets countries, actual bank subsidiary ratings may differ from the Parent Company rating. (2) Fixed income and money-market investments include term deposits, structured deposits, investments in liquidity funds and investments in fixed income instruments classified as available-for-sale investments and investments at fair value through profit and loss. Liquidity funds invested solely in government securities are included under Governments. Other liquidity funds are included  under Banks. 
