Also, taking a regional perspective, we saw many good areas of performance. Our sales increased in Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America, and North America. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, sales were down by 2 percent in Middle East and Africa but that was still a good performance in the context of challenging market dynamics. In Greater China the market presents some unique challenges, and we saw a sales decline of 16 percent excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
As mentioned above, we were also chosen by early adopter operators in the leading 5G markets – from Sprint and Verizon in the US, to Softbank in Japan, to Korea Telecom in South Korea, amongst others; additionally, we were selected by Orange France and O2 in the UK. This was down to some admirable work across business groups and our customer organization teams. In 2020 we will work hard to maintain and increase the trust our customers have in us. 
Improving execution in our access business In 2019 the Nokia Group results were, however, impacted by the difficulties across our Mobile and Fixed Access businesses.  Fixed Access continued to face challenges  in the market transition from copper to fiber despite some initial signs of progress towards the end of the year. Going forward, we will continue to have a sharp focus on costs,  and we have targeted selective expansion in new areas, particularly fixed wireless access.
We look to the future to understand essential human needs and the potential barriers to enabling this new human existence. We then use our unique diversity of research intellects, disciplines and perspectives to solve key problems through disruptive innovations with the power to enable new economic capabilities, societal behaviors, business models and types of services – in other words, we drive human and technological revolutions.
Competition The mobile networks market is a highly consolidated market, and our main competitors are Huawei and Ericsson. Additionally, there are four regional vendors, ZTE, Samsung, Fujitsu and NEC as well as some new, small entrants, such as Altiostar, Mavenir, Parallel Wireless, JMA Wireless and Airspan. The microwave transport market segment is more fragmented. There, besides Huawei and Ericsson, our key competitors include, for example, Ceragon, NEC and Aviat.
Third, we see a stronger demand for large high-performance networks in some key areas outside the traditional communication service provider space. Webscale companies and extra-large enterprises – such as Apple, Facebook, Google, Alibaba and Amazon – are investing in cloud technology and network infrastructure to build these high-performing, secure networks. In addition, other target vertical markets such as energy, transportation and the public sector are investing to build carrier-grade, mission-critical networks.
Additionally in 2019, we witnessed some customers reassessing their vendor selection strategies, in light of on-going security concerns. We have not seen any material business or market share impact of this in 2019, but is has the potential to slightly shift the vendor balance in certain regions and technology domains. 
Specifically in China, where pursuing market share presents significant profitability challenges and the region has some unique market dynamics, we are executing against a clear strategic goal to improve our overall business mix in the region. Therefore, we expect to be prudent in 5G, while targeting more attractive opportunities with communication service providers in other parts of our business such as core, routing, transport, fixed access and LTE, as well as with enterprise and webscale customers.
Pricing and price erosion While we experience varying levels of price erosion across our businesses, it is particularly evident in our Mobile Networks business group, given the highly standardized nature of the business. In 2019, we witnessed increased competitive intensity in some accounts, as certain competitors sought to take share in the early stages of 5G. Generally, at this stage of the cycle, strong 4G margins would be expected to offset the 5G competitive pressure. However, as early 5G deals often include 4G, we experienced declines in our  4G margins in 2019.
Additionally, there are clear regional differences in the ease of protecting and licensing patented innovations. We have seen some licensees actively avoiding making license payments, and some licensors using aggressive methods to collect them; both behaviors have attracted regulatory attention. We expect discussion of the regulation of licensing to continue at both global and regional level. Some of those regulatory developments may be adverse to the interests of technology developers and patent owners, including us.
While 2019 saw Nokia face some challenges, many of  our businesses performed well and Nokia ended the year with a clear plan in place, expecting to improve over 2020 and to start 2021 in a stronger position. 
The Board has also had a consistent focus on CEO succession planning as part of its core processes. Rajeev Suri, Nokia’s current President and CEO, indicated earlier to the Board that he was considering stepping down from his role at some point in the future, provided a solid succession plan was in place. Nokia’s Board of Directors has conducted a structured process for CEO succession and has been working closely with Suri to develop internal candidates and identify external candidates. That process culminated on  March 2, 2020, when the Board made the decision to appoint Pekka Lundmark as the new President and CEO of Nokia. Lundmark  is expected to start in his new role on September 1, 2020, with Suri leaving his current position on August 31, 2020 and continuing to serve as an advisor to the  Board until January 1, 2021.
We distribute distributable funds, if any, within the limits set by the Finnish Companies Act as defined below. We make and calculate the distribution, if any, in the form of cash dividends, assets from the reserve for invested unrestricted equity, share buy-backs, or in some other form, or a combination of these. There is no specific formula by which the amount of a distribution is determined, although some limits set by law are discussed below. The timing and amount of future distributions of retained earnings and/or assets from the reserve for invested 
 ■ Shareholders will be asked to adopt Nokia’s remuneration policy as part of a “Say on Pay” vote in the 2020 AGM. The policy has remained relatively stable after the changes made in 2018. We reached out to our largest shareholders once again in 2019, and they acknowledged the changes made in 2018, and were supportive of some minor technical amendments to facilitate operational flexibility in the plan for the next four years. The remuneration policy to be presented to shareholders is available on our website.
2019 was a year of mixed fortunes seeing 5G really take off and good performance from some of our business groups. It also presented challenges to us at an operational level for Nokia with profits and cash flow below target. This was illustrated by the impact on our share price. 
Shareholders will be asked to adopt Nokia’s remuneration policy as part of a “Say on Pay” vote in the 2020 AGM. The 2019 remuneration policy has remained relatively stable after the changes made in 2018. We reached out to our largest shareholders once again in 2019, and they acknowledged the changes made in 2018, and were supportive of some minor technical amendments to facilitate operational flexibility in the plan for the next four years. Our updated 2020 policy will be available on our website prior to the AGM. 
Business context ■ Below target performance was driven by market pressure in China, slower than expected 5G growth, and some product development challenges in 5G. Success in IP Routing, Nokia Enterprise, Nokia Software, and Nokia Technologies was insufficient to offset the challenges in Mobile Access. 
Shareholder outreach During 2019 we met with some of our shareholders to hear their views on our compensation policies, programs and associated disclosures. We have taken these views into account in both the measures for the 2020 incentive plans and also in the policy that will be presented to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
(3)  Nokia and some senior executives of the Company entered into agreements based on which the vesting of Restricted Shares granted to them is subject to fulfilment of predetermined performance 
In some arrangements, mainly within the submarine cable business, performance does not create an asset with an alternative use  and the Group recognizes revenue over time using the output method, which faithfully depicts the manner in which the asset is transferred to the customer as well as the Group’s enforceable rights to payment for the work completed to date. The output measure selected by the Group may vary from each contract depending on the nature of contract. 
Sale of services The Group provides services related to the provision of networking equipment, ranging from managing a customer’s network and product maintenance services to network installation, integration and optimization. Revenue for each separate service performance obligation is recognized as or when the customer obtains  the benefits of the Group’s performance. Service revenue is recognized over time for managed and maintenance services,  as in these cases the Group performs throughout a fixed contract term and the customer simultaneously receives and consumes  the benefits as the Group performs. In some cases, the Group performs services that are subject to customer acceptance where revenue is recognized when the customer acceptance is received.  
When the Group grants customers a license to use IP owned by  the Group, the associated license fee revenue is recognized in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements. In the majority of cases, the Group retains obligations to continue to develop and make available to the customer the latest IP in the licensed assets during the contract term, and therefore revenue  is recognized pro rata over the period during which the Group is expected to perform. Recognition of the revenue as pro rata over the term of the license is considered the most faithful depiction  of the Group’s satisfaction of the performance obligation as the  IP being licensed towards the customer includes new inventions patented by the Group that are highly interdependent and interrelated and created through the course of continuous research and development (R&D) efforts that are relatively  stable throughout the year. In some contracts, the Group has no remaining obligations to perform after granting a license to the initial IP, and licensing fees are non-refundable. In these cases, revenue is recognized at the beginning of the license term. 
Determining and allocating the transaction price The Group enters into complex customer arrangements, some  of which are non-committed framework agreements that contain complex discounting structures as well as customer pricing that varies depending on the different needs of each customer. The appropriate identification and allocation of discounts and other forms of variable consideration as well as determination of the standalone selling price of each performance obligation are critical judgments that have a direct impact on the timing and amount of revenue recognized. The determination of standalone selling prices of existing performance obligations and of unexercised customer options to purchase additional goods or services will also impact the Group’s determination whether a non-committed part of  the contract contains material rights that must be accounted for within the context of the contract. Identified material rights are accounted for as a performance obligation within the contract and the Group will allocate part of the transaction price to it with the relative standalone selling price method. 
Total  The estimated timing of the satisfaction of these performance obligations is subject to change owing to factors beyond the Group’s control such as customer and network demand, market conditions and, in some cases, restrictions imposed by the weather or other factors impacting project logistics. Revenue recognized in the reporting period from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods (for example, due to changes in transaction price) was not material. 
The level 3 financial assets category includes a large number of investments in unlisted equities and unlisted venture funds, including investments managed by NGP Capital specializing in growth-stage investing. The fair value of level 3 investments is determined using one or more valuation techniques where the use of the market approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions, while the use of the income approach generally consists of calculating the net present value of expected future cash flows. For unlisted funds, the selection of appropriate valuation techniques by the fund managing partner may be affected by the availability and reliability of relevant inputs. In some cases, one valuation technique may provide the best indication of fair value while in other circumstances multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate. 
For retirees who were represented by the CWA and IBEW, the Group expects to fund the entire current retiree healthcare and group life insurance obligations with Section 420 transfers from the formerly represented pension plan’s pension surplus. This is considered as a refund from the pension plan when setting the asset ceiling. For retirees participating in the non-represented pension plan, the Group expects, from time to time, to be able to fund some portion of the current retiree group life insurance obligation with Section 420 transfers from the non-represented pension plan’s pension surplus, as funding levels permit. 
(1) Includes foreign exchange exposure from forecasted cash flows related to sales and purchases. In some currencies, especially the US dollar, the Group has substantial foreign exchange 
When the Parent Company grants customers with rights to  use IP in their products, the associated license fee revenue is recognized in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements. In the majority of cases, the Group retains obligations to continue to develop the licensed assets during the contract term, and therefore revenue is recognized pro rata over the  period during which the Parent Company is expected to perform. Recognition of the revenue as pro rata over the term of the license is considered the most faithful depiction of the Parent Company’s satisfaction of the performance obligation as the IP being licensed towards the customer includes new inventions patented by the Parent Company that are highly interdependent and interrelated and created through the course of continuous R&D efforts that  are relatively stable throughout the year. In some contracts,  the Parent Company has no remaining obligations to perform  after granting a license to the initial IP, and licensing fees are  non-refundable. In these cases, revenue is recognized at the beginning of the license term. 
The level 3 financial assets category includes a large number of investments in unlisted equities and unlisted venture funds. The fair value of level 3 investments is determined using one or more valuation techniques where the use of the market approach generally consists  of using comparable market transactions, while the use of the income approach generally consists of calculating the net present value  of expected future cash flows. For unlisted funds, the selection of appropriate valuation techniques by the fund managing partner may be affected by the availability and reliability of relevant inputs. In some cases, one valuation technique may provide the best indication  of fair value while in other circumstances multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate 
Certain statements contained in this Annual Report constitute “forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements provide Nokia’s current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly  relate to any current or historical fact. The words “believe”, “expect”, “expectations”, “anticipate”, “foresee”, “see”, “target”, “estimate”, “designed”, “aim”, “plan”, “intend”, “influence”, “assumption”,  “focus”, “continue”, “project”, “should”, “is to”, “will”, “strive”,  “may” or similar expressions as they relate to us or our management are intended to identify these forward-looking statements, as well  as statements regarding:
