Certain statements contained in this Annual Report constitute "forward-looking statements". Forward-looking statements provide Nokia's current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any current or historical fact. The words “believe”, “expect”, “expectations”, “anticipate”, “foresee”, “see”, “target”, “estimate”, “designed”, “aim”, “plan”, “intend”, “influence”, “assumption”, “focus”, “continue”, “project”, “should", "is to", "will”, "strive", "may" or similar expressions as they relate to us or our management are intended to identify these forward-looking statements, as well as statements regarding:
 ■ Regarding our conversion rate from 4G to 5G based on actual radio business volume, we ended 2020 in the 90% range, excluding China. The decline from 2019 was primarily driven by some market share loss in North America, partially offset by footprint gains with customers that have increased their focus on security.
4. Establishing technology leadership  in some segments requires us to anticipate, shape and invest in the  next technology window – where there  is no path, we will reassess segment participation.
We look to the future to understand essential human needs and the potential barriers to enabling this new human existence. We then use our unique diversity of research intellects, disciplines and perspectives to solve key problems through disruptive innovations with the power to enable new economic capabilities, societal behaviors, business models and types of services – in other words, we drive human and technological revolutions.
While also this market segment faces some pricing pressure, telecom software provides significant long-term opportunity for vendors that can drive technology and operational leadership and set the pace of transformation in the industry. 
Competition We operate in a complex ecosystem where some companies are our customer, our partner, and our competitor. In that ecosystem, our competitors range from broad networking companies with which we have competed for some time, and specialized competitors focusing on a single customer segment, to a large set of new, smaller competitors who are typically attracted to the transformational value and opportunity of 5G.
Third, we see a stronger demand for large high-performance networks in some key areas outside the traditional communication service provider space. Webscale companies and extra-large enterprises – such as Apple, Facebook, Google, Alibaba and Amazon –  are investing in cloud technology and network infrastructure to build these high-performing, secure networks. In addition, other  target vertical markets such as energy, transportation and the public sector  are investing to build carrier-grade, mission-critical networks.
Additionally in 2020, we continued to witness some customers reassessing their vendor selection strategies, in light of ongoing security concerns. We are seeing some gains with operators who are reconsidering their vendors as a result of geopolitical issues.  We estimate that we have won about half  of the value of such deals available to date.
Pricing and price erosion While we experience varying levels of price erosion across our businesses, it is particularly evident in our Mobile Access business group, given the highly standardized nature of the business. In 2020, we witnessed increased competitive intensity in some accounts, particularly in North America, as certain competitors sought to take share in 5G.
Additionally, there are clear regional differences in the ease of protecting and licensing patented innovations. We have seen some licensees actively avoiding making license payments, and some licensors using aggressive methods to collect them; both behaviors have attracted regulatory attention. We expect discussion of the regulation of licensing to continue at both global and regional level. Some of those regulatory developments may be adverse to the interests of technology developers and patent owners, including us.
The decrease in IP Routing net sales was in comparison to a particularly strong 2019, which benefited from pent-up demand for some of its newly introduced FP4 products.
Almost all business decisions in 2020 were affected by the pandemic to some degree, but some deployments were more directly COVID-19 influenced. In the earliest days of 2020, our team assisted in opening the first 5G base station at one of the key epidemic hospitals in Wuhan in just two days. In rural California, we met a customer’s goal of providing a wireless solution that can deliver high-speed broadband to people who did not have access previously and address traffic needs driven by COVID-19. In Pennsylvania, we enabled a large medical center to connect ventilators and inpatient beds for real-time patient monitoring. In India, we completed the world’s largest Dynamic Spectrum Refarming deployment to improve network coverage and enhance connectivity to meet growing data demand driven by COVID-19. In Algeria, we implemented ultra-high network capacity technology to meet growing mobile traffic demand. In Sri Lanka and the Philippines, we deployed next generation fiber networks to bring ultra-fast broadband access to homes during the unprecedented events of 2020. And in Chile, the pandemic has increased the value of our IMPACT Connected Device Platform, which enables remote management of networks and IoT devices.
We distribute distributable funds, if any, within the limits set by the Finnish Companies Act as defined below. We make and calculate the distribution, if any, in the form of cash dividends, assets from the reserve for invested unrestricted equity, share buy-backs, or in some other form, or a combination of these. There is no specific formula by which the amount of a distribution is determined, although some limits set by law are discussed below. The timing and amount of future distributions of retained earnings and/or assets from the reserve for invested unrestricted equity, if any, will depend on our future results and financial conditions.
 ■ Our dependence on some of the divested businesses as our suppliers in the future; and 
We may be unable to respond successfully to technological changes in the markets in which we operate. Market developments favoring new technological solutions, such as SDN, cloud and virtualization, may result in reduced spending for the benefit of our competitors who have, or may have, a stronger position in such technologies. The technological viability of standardized, low-margin hardware products in combination with the virtualization of functions can induce a change in purchase behavior, resulting in favoring other vendors or in higher bargaining power versus Nokia due to more alternative vendors. Our customers may prefer best-of-breed from multiple vendors or turn to alternative vendors to maintain end-to-end services. Additionally, new competitors may enter the industry as a result of acquisitions or shifts in technology. Furthermore, some companies, including webscale companies, may drive a faster pace of innovation in telecommunication infrastructure through more collaborative approaches and open technologies across access, backhaul, core and management.
Nokia Technologies business group’s sales and profits are currently largely derived from patent licensing. Our ability to protect and monetize our intellectual property may depend on regulatory and other developments in various jurisdictions with respect to protection awarded to technology innovations or compensation trends with respect to licensing and the actions or implementation of the regulations by administrative bodies. Any patents or other IPR may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any right granted under our patents may not provide competitive advantages for us. Our ability to protect, license or divest our patented innovations may vary by region. In the technology sector generally, certain licensees are actively avoiding license payments, while some licensors are using aggressive methods to collect license payments, with both behaviors attracting regulatory attention. Authorities in various countries have increasingly monitored patent monetization and may aim to influence the terms on which patent licensing arrangements or patent divestments may be executed, which could compromise control over or protection of our technology and proprietary information. Such terms may be limited to a certain country or region; however, authorities could potentially seek to widen the scope and even impose global terms, potentially resulting in an adverse effect on us or limiting our ability to monetize our patent portfolios.
While we seek to renew existing license agreements and negotiate new license agreements in the industries where we have established licensing programs, we also seek to expand the scope of our licensing activities to other industries, in particular those that implement mobile communication technologies. The players in some of these industries may not have traditionally paid intellectual property-related royalties, which may hamper the expansion of our licensing activities. Entering new segments may involve litigation, while entering highly fragmented markets or markets with high volume of licensees may affect our effectiveness  and/or profitability.
We also enter into business agreements separately by our business groups, which may grant certain licenses to our patents. Some of these agreements may inadvertently grant licenses to our patents with a broader scope than intended, or they may otherwise make the enforcement of our patents more difficult.
Bribery and anti-corruption laws in effect in many countries prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to public officials or private individuals for the purpose of obtaining new business, maintaining existing business relationships or gaining any material advantage. Certain anti-corruption laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) also require the maintenance of proper books and records, and the implementation of controls and procedures in order to ensure that a company’s operations do not involve corrupt payments. Since we operate throughout the world and, given that some of our customers are government-owned entities and that our projects and agreements often require approvals from public officials, there is a risk that our employees, suppliers, consultants or commercial third-party representatives may take actions that are in violation of our compliance policies and of applicable anti-corruption laws. 
changes in demand due to capacity constraints or other factors, which could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products and services on a timely basis. If we fail to properly anticipate customer demand, an over-supply or under-supply of components and production or services delivery capacity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same contract manufacturers, component suppliers and service vendors. If they have purchased capacity or components ahead of us, or  if there is significant consolidation in the relevant supplier base, this could prevent  us from acquiring the required components or services, which could limit our ability to supply our customers or increase our costs. 
A large proportion of Nokia manufacturing and field installation activities are carried out by third-party suppliers. These vary in size and often engage a number of tiers of suppliers which limits Nokia’s direct control. Our suppliers or a supplier may fail to meet our supplier requirements, such as our and our customers’ product quality, safety, security and other standards. Certain suppliers may not comply with local laws, including, among others, local labor law, health and safety or environmental requirements. Consequently, some of our products or the manner in which services are delivered may be unacceptable to us or to our customers. This can in turn lead to exposure in the form of litigation, product recalls or brand damage through association.
We have encountered, and may in the future encounter, shortages of appropriately skilled employees or lose key employees or senior management, which may hamper our ability to implement our strategies and may have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in our strategy in order to respond to our business targets and endeavors and related uncertainty have caused and may in the future cause disruption, dissatisfaction and fatigue among employees, as our efforts to evolve our business and maximize operational efficiency continue. As a result, employee motivation, energy, focus, morale and productivity may be reduced, causing inefficiencies and other problems across the organization resulting in the loss of key employees, difficulties in recruiting employees and increased costs in resolving and addressing such matters. The loss of key employees could result in resource gaps, some of which may only be noticed after a certain period of time or which negatively impact our relationship with customers, vendors or other business partners. We have acquired, and may from time to time acquire, businesses or complete other transactions where retaining key employees may be crucial to obtain the intended benefits of such transactions. There can be no assurances that we will be able to implement measures successfully to retain or hire the required employees. We believe this will require significant time, attention and resources from our senior management and other key employees within our organization and may result in increased costs. 
Risks associated with our shares Our share and/or ADS price may be volatile and subject to fluctuations. Our share and/or ADS price may be volatile and could be subject to fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors described in this section, “Risk Factors”, other factors that could cause fluctuations in our share price include, among others, high volatility in the securities markets generally and volatility in telecommunications and technology companies’ securities in particular, trading volumes, speculation in the media or retail or institutional investment communities regarding the company and  our prospects, future developments in our industry and competitors, our financial results and the expectations of financial analysts,  as well as the timing or content of any public communications, including reports of operating results, by us or our competitors. Further, factors in the public trading market for our stock may produce price movements that may or may not comport with macro, industry or company-specific fundamentals, including, without limitation, the sentiment of retail investors (including as may be expressed on financial trading and other social media sites and online forums), the direct access by retail investors to broadly available trading 
In 2020, we continued only with our existing contractual obligations  in compliance with applicable economic sanctions and other trade-related laws including limited local delivery of radio products and transmission licenses, including associated services, to MTN Irancell and some software and features to Mobile Communications Company of Iran (MCCI).
In some arrangements, mainly within the submarine cable business, performance does not create an asset with an alternative use  and the Group recognizes revenue over time using the output method, which faithfully depicts the manner in which the asset is transferred to the customer as well as the Group's enforceable rights to payment for the work completed to date. The output measure selected by the Group may vary from each contract depending on the nature of the contract. 
Sale of services The Group provides services related to the provision of networking equipment, ranging from managing a customer’s network and product maintenance services to network installation, integration and optimization. Revenue for each separate service performance obligation is recognized as or when the customer obtains the benefits of the Group’s performance. Service revenue is recognized over time for managed and maintenance services,  as in these cases the Group performs throughout a fixed contract term and the customer simultaneously receives and consumes  the benefits as the Group performs. In some cases, the Group performs services that are subject to customer acceptance where revenue is recognized when the customer acceptance is received.   
When the Group grants customers a license to use IP owned by  the Group, the associated license fee revenue is recognized in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements. In the majority of cases, the Group retains obligations to continue to develop and make available to the customer the latest IP in the licensed assets during the contract term, and therefore revenue  is recognized pro rata over the period during which the Group is expected to perform. Recognition of the revenue as pro rata over the term of the license is considered the most faithful depiction  of the Group’s satisfaction of the performance obligation as the  IP being licensed towards the customer includes new inventions patented by the Group that are highly interdependent and interrelated and created through the course of continuous research and development (R&D) efforts that are relatively  stable throughout the year. In some contracts, the Group has no remaining obligations to perform after granting a license to the initial IP, and licensing fees are non-refundable. In these cases, revenue is recognized at the beginning of the license term. 
Determining and allocating the transaction price The Group enters into complex customer arrangements, some of which are non-committed framework agreements that contain complex discounting structures as well as customer pricing that varies depending on the different needs of each customer. The appropriate identification and allocation of discounts and other forms of variable consideration as well as determination of the standalone selling price of each performance obligation are critical judgments that have a direct impact on the timing and amount of revenue recognized. The determination of standalone selling prices of existing performance obligations and of unexercised customer options to purchase additional goods or services will also impact the Group’s determination whether a non-committed part of  the contract contains material rights that must be accounted for within the context of the contract. Identified material rights are accounted for as a performance obligation within the contract and the Group will allocate part of the transaction price to it with the relative standalone selling price method. 
Total  The estimated timing of the satisfaction of these performance obligations is subject to change owing to factors beyond the Group’s control such as customer and network demand, market conditions and, in some cases, restrictions imposed by the weather or other factors impacting project logistics. Revenue recognized in the reporting period from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods (for example, due to changes in transaction price) was not material. 
The level 3 financial assets category includes a large number of investments in unlisted equities and unlisted venture funds, including investments managed by NGP Capital specializing in growth-stage investing. The fair value of level 3 investments is determined using one  or more valuation techniques where the use of the market approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions, while the use of the income approach generally consists of calculating the net present value of expected future cash flows. For unlisted funds, the selection of appropriate valuation techniques by the fund managing partner may be affected by the availability and reliability of relevant inputs. In some cases, one valuation technique may provide the best indication of fair value while in other circumstances  multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate. 
For retirees who, when actively employed, were represented by the CWA or the IBEW, the Group expects to fund the entire current retiree healthcare and group life insurance obligations with Section 420 transfers from excess pension assets in the formerly represented pension plan. This is considered as a refund from the pension plan when setting the asset ceiling. For retirees who were not represented by the CWA or IBEW (non-represented retirees), the Group expects to be able to fund some portion of the current retiree group life insurance obligation with Section 420 transfers from excess pension assets in the non-represented pension plan. Section 420 is currently set to expire on December 31, 2025. 
Includes foreign exchange exposure from forecasted cash flows related to sales and purchases. In some currencies, especially the US dollar, the Group has substantial foreign exchange exposures in both estimated cash inflows and outflows. These underlying exposures have been hedged. Includes foreign exchange exposure from contractual firm commitments. These underlying exposures have been substantially hedged. Includes net investment exposures in foreign operations. These underlying exposures have been hedged. Includes interest-bearing liabilities that have been hedged with cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forwards. Refer to Note 23, Interest-bearing liabilities. Items on the statement of financial position are hedged by a portion of foreign exchange derivatives not designated in a hedge relationship and carried at fair value through profit and loss. 
The transaction price in the contract is allocated across these performance obligations based on the standalone selling prices identified by management. This identification of standalone selling prices involves significant judgement, involves multiple inputs and calculations and has a direct impact on the timing and amount of revenue recognised. Where there is limited history or experience of selling similar goods or services, such as with 5G equipment in some markets, there is necessarily an increased level of judgement required in making the determination.
