unsatisfactory for quite some time. Digital Services is strategically important for our future success and for the success of our cus- tomers, as they virtualize their networks and become fully digital enterprises. In 2017 Digi- tal Services reported significant losses and our first priority has been to stabilize our product roadmaps and large transformation projects. We have made great progress during the year. We are now focusing on restoring profitability, by increasing software content but also by taking costs out in service delivery. 
some 30% of the 10 billion cost reduction target. The emphasis is on reduction of IT spend, indirect spend as well as real estate site footprint and facility management. In 2017, Ericsson identified a number of sites to be closed down.
equity each time of the income statement charge. The reason for this IFRS accounting principle is that compensation cost for a share settled pro- gram is a cost with no direct cash flow impact. All plans have service conditions and some of them have performance or market conditions. For further detailed information, see Note C28, “Information regarding mem- bers of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees.” 
IFRS 16 – Leases In January 2016, IASB issued a new lease standard, IFRS 16, that will replace IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The standard requires assets and liabilities arising from all leases, with some exceptions, to be recognized on the balance sheet. This model reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee always obtains the right to use an asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay for that right. The accounting for lessors will be based on the same classification as under IAS 17, operating or finance leasing. The definition of a lease is amended. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Company will apply the new standard as from January 1, 2019. The initial assessment indi- cates that the main impact on the balance sheet is expected, where the Com- pany is the lessee, primarily in contracts for real estate and vehicles. The Com- pany plans to apply a modified transition method. The impact on the financial statements is not yet defined. In Note C27, “Leasing,” disclosure is given about future lease payments.
1) Some of the derivatives hedging non-current liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet as 
Market price risk in own shares and other listed equity investments The Company is exposed to fluctuations in its own share price (through stock purchase plans for employees) and other share-based compensation for employees and the Board of Directors. Some of the plans are share settled and some are cash settled as further disclosed in Note C1, “Significant accounting policies” and Note C28, “Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees .”
1) Some of the derivatives hedging non-current liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet 
Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncertainty as well as geopolitical risks may adversely impact the demand and pricing for our products and services as well as limit our ability to grow. Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncer- tainty as well as geopolitical risk could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our custom- ers. Adverse global economic conditions and political unrest and uncer- tainty as well as geopolitical risk could cause operators and other cus- tomers to postpone investments or initiate other cost-cutting initiatives to improve their financial position. This could result in significantly reduced expenditures for our products and services, including network infrastructure, in which case our operating results would suffer. If demand for our products and services were to fall in the future, we could experience material adverse effects on our revenues, cash flow, capital employed and value of our assets and we could incur operating losses. Furthermore, if demand is significantly weaker or more volatile than expected, our credit rating, borrowing opportunities and costs as well as the trading price of our shares could be adversely impacted. Should global economic conditions fail to improve or worsen or should political unrest and uncertainty or geopolitical problems fail to improve or worsen, other business risks we face could intensify and could also negatively impact the business prospects of operators and other cus- tomers. Some operators and other customers, in particular in markets with weak currencies, may incur borrowing difficulties and slower traffic development, which may negatively affect their investment plans and cause them to purchase less of our products and services. The potential adverse effects of an economic downturn include: – Reduced demand for products and services, resulting in increased 
We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits  of our restructuring plan and our restructuring may adversely  affect our business. We announced a restructuring plan in 2017 to realign our cost structure in connection with a company transformation to achieve operating efficiencies and drive profitability. Implementation of the restructuring plan may be costly and disruptive to our business. For example, restruc- turing charges of SEK –8.5 (–7.6) b. had a significant negative impact on our reported 2017 results. We may also not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may 
experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructur- ing can require a significant amount of management and other employ- ees’ time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and negative impacts on the business, and we cannot be sure that any ongoing or future restructuring efforts will be successful or generate expected cost savings. Factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, or if we do not complete the restructuring on schedule, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, reputation and share price.
We face intense competition from our existing competitors as well as new entrants, including IT companies entering the telecommunica- tions market, and this could materially adversely affect our results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive in terms of price, functionality, service quality, customization, timing of develop- ment, and the introduction of new products and services. We face intense competition from significant competitors, many of which are very large, with substantial technological and financial resources and established relationships with operators. We also encounter increased competition from new market entrants and alternative technologies are evolving industry standards. In particular, we face competition from large IT companies and web scale companies entering the telecommu- nications market who benefit from economies of scale due to being active in several industries. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, offer more attractively priced or enhanced products, services or solutions, or they may offer other incentives that we do not provide. Some of our competitors may also have greater resources in certain business segments or geographic markets than we do. Increased competition could result in reduced profit margins, loss of market share, increased research and develop- ment costs as well as increased sales and marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share.
Certain long-term agreements with customers include commitments to future price reductions, requiring us to constantly manage and con- trol our cost base. Long-term agreements with our customers are typically awarded on a competitive bidding basis. In some cases, such agreements also include a commitment to future price reductions. In order to maintain our gross margin with such price reductions, we continuously strive to reduce the costs of our products through design improvements, negotiation of better purchase prices from our suppliers, allocation of more production to low-cost countries and increased productivity in our own production. However, there can be no assurance that our actions to reduce costs will be sufficient or quick enough to maintain our gross margin in such con- tracts, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, oper- ating results and financial condition.
Furthermore, our procurement of supplies requires us to predict future customer demands. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an over or under supply of components and production capac- ity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same manufacturers and if they have purchased capacity ahead of us we could be blocked from acquiring the needed products. This factor could limit our ability to supply our customers and increase costs. At the same time, we commit to certain capacity levels or component quantities, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity or scrapping costs. We are also exposed to financial counterpart risks to suppliers when we pay in advance for supplies. Such supply disruptions and cost increases may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.
Moreover, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to establish and enforce our proprietary rights. In fact, existing legal systems of some countries in which we con- duct business offer only limited protection of intellectual property rights, if at all. Our solutions may also require us to license technologies from third-parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses and there can be no assurance that they will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third-parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to protect proprietary rights in our products.
If our customers’ financial conditions decline, we will be exposed to increased credit and commercial risks. After completing sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty col- lecting accounts receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectable accounts receivable. We regularly assess the credit worthiness of our customers and based on that assessment we deter- mine a credit limit for each one of them. Challenging economic condi- tions have impacted some of our customers’ ability to pay their invoices. We may be unable to avoid future losses on our trade receivables. We have also experienced demands for customer financing, and in adverse financial markets or more competitive environments, those demands may increase. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we may experi- ence losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to our commercial risk exposure, and the loss of the customer’s ongoing business. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.
sanctions or other trade embargoes in force. The political situation in parts of the world, particularly in the Middle East, remains uncertain and the level of sanctions is still relatively high from a historical perspective. A universal element of these sanctions is the financial restrictions with respect to individuals and legal entities, but sanctions can also restrict certain exports and ultimately lead to a complete trade embargo towards a country. Specifically, on Iran, the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (“JCPOA”) has led to a reduction of sanc- tions, particularly on the EU side. Although some of the sanctions against Iran have been reduced, there are provisions to re-introduce these sanctions if parts of the agreement are not met. The change in political leadership in the U.S. has also led to an increased uncertainty about the country’s position in foreign policy, including the commitment to the JCPOA and sanctions towards Iran and other countries. Further there is a risk in many countries of unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, price or exchange controls, or other governmental policies which could limit our operations and decrease our profitability. Furthermore export control regulations, sanc- tions or other forms of trade restrictions targeting countries in which we are active may result in a reduction of commitment in those countries. The need to terminate activities as a result of further trade restrictions may also expose us to customer claims and other inherent risks. Although we seek to comply with all export control and sanctions regu- lations, there can be no assurance that we are or will be compliant with all relevant regulations at all times. Such potential violations could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, reputation and brand.
There has been a concern reported by some media and others, that certain countries may use features of their telecommunications systems in ways that could result in potential violation of human rights. This may adversely affect the telecommunications business and may have a negative impact for people, our reputation and brand. 
We may fail to comply with our corporate governance standards, which could negatively affect our business, operating results,  financial condition, reputation and brand. We are subject to corporate governance laws and regulations as well as several corporate responsibility and sustainability requirements. In some of the countries where we operate, corruption risks are high, there- fore there is a higher focus on anticorruption. To ensure that our opera- tions are conducted in accordance with applicable laws and require- ments, our management system includes a Code of Business Ethics, a Code of Conduct and a Sustainability Policy, as well as other policies and directives to govern our processes and operations. However, our commitment to apply the UN Global Compact ten principles, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and principles of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative to our operations cannot fully prevent unintended or unlawful use of our tech- nology by democratic and non-democratic regimes, violation of our Code of Business Ethics, corruption, fraud, embezzlement, or violations of anti-trust legislation, trade restrictions and international sanctions or our Code of Conduct in Ericsson or in the supply chain. There is also an increased demand from external stakeholders, for example non-govern- mental organizations and investors, on transparency about sustainabil- ity and corporate responsibility issues that might be difficult to fulfill. Ericsson is voluntarily cooperating with inquiries from the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States Depart- ment of Justice regarding its compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These inquiries currently concern the period from January 2007 onwards. While the outcome of these inquiries is currently not determinable, they could result in penalties or other measures that are significant. While we attempt to monitor and audit internally and exter- nally our compliance with the policies and directives as well as our sup- pliers’ adherence to our Code of Conduct and strive for continuous improvements, we cannot provide any assurances that violations will not occur which could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, and brand. 
The words “believe,” “expect,” “foresee,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “intend,” “likely,” “projects,” “may,” “could,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “predict,” “aim,” “ambition,” “seek,” “potential,” “target,” “might,” “continue,” or, in each case, their negative or variations, and similar words or expressions are used to identify forward-looking state- ments. Any statement that refers to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. 
Board of LTV 2017, the Board has resolved to propose to AGM in 2018 to approve a LTV program similar in design to LTV 2017 . While LTV 2017 only included three-year targets relating to TSR, the targets for LTV 2018 have been developed to also include a one-year Group Oper- ating Income target for 2018. It is proposed for all targets to have a three-year vesting period. Also for LTV 2018, the value of the underlying shares in respect of the Performance Share Awards made to Executive Team members (other than the President & CEO) is proposed to be increased from 22.5% to between 30% and 70% of the respective annual base salaries. This will be done by way of transferring some part of the short-term variable compensation opportunity to the long-term variable compensation, following the principle of total remuneration to remain unchanged. The aim is to support achieving the Company’s 2020 targets and to increase the long-term focus and alignment with the long-term expectations of the shareholders.
Some of the Group Policies and Directives that are of particular relevance from a sustain- ability and corporate responsibility perspective are the Code of Business Ethics, the Code of Conduct, the Sustainability Policy, the Occu- pational Health and Safety Policy, the Electro- magnetic Fields and Health Policy, the Sales Compliance Policy and the Anti-corruption Group Directive, which reflect how Ericsson shall work to secure responsible business practices. These policies and practices are reinforced by employee awareness training and monitoring. Compliance to Group Policies are mandatory for all employees and operations unless a deviation is approved by the CEO.
components Ericsson acknowledges the potential risks in our supply chain associated with resource exploitation such as mining of minerals but also water scarcity and risks of pollution. Some of these risks include armed conflicts, human rights violations and negative environmental impacts. In 2017 the Company strengthened its Code of Conduct to cover responsible sourcing of raw materials and made it more clear that all suppliers shall exercise due diligence with respect to the sourcing and extraction of raw materials. The due diligence shall be consistent with relevant parts of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance.
A big challenge is to increase the volume of take-back products at end of life, which is mainly due to the extensive second-hand market for used equipment. Ericsson retrieved over 11,890 tonnes of e-waste from our cus- tomers in 2017, in addition we retrieved approximately 360 tonnes of batteries. The Company sees a risk that some products might end up in the informal waste sector where poor working conditions and health risks to workers can occur.
To minimize this risk, Ericsson remains committed to its goal of retrieving 20,000 tonnes by 2020. The Company has started a project to review and improve its product take-back operations. Together with some of its customers Ericsson has also made a joint commitment to manage e-waste more effec- tively and thereby save valuable resources. 
In Ericsson’s leadership development pro- grams, women make up 39% of the partici- pants in the executive programs and 34% in the early career programs. Business transfor- mation, reorganizations, mergers and acquisi- tions may to some extent have an impact on the gender ratios, and are thus monitored carefully and reviewed in connection to any larger changes within the Company. 
Text på märket:
