Over the past several years we have  sign ificantly increased resources devoted to compliance and investigations. We have introduced vetting of Executive Team mem­ bers and staff in over 150 key positions. Importantly, the key individuals identified by the DOJ and SEC are no longer with the com­ pany. In total, 49 people with some form of culpable involvement in the matters reported to the DOJ and SEC have left Ericsson.
In summary We are empowering an intelligent, sustaina­ ble and connected world by relentlessly inno­ vating technologies that are easy to adopt, use and scale. We have already connected billions of people, and our solutions are help­ ing to solve some of the planet’s biggest  challenges. Through our people, solutions and technology leadership we will continue to drive real, positive change in society. 
tive returns and to support Group financial targets. While contracts are expected to be profitable over time, some expansions may be associated with challenging near­term returns, as the cost for telecom operators to change vendor can be high.
Market trends The market area South East Asia, Oceania and India includes developed markets with some of the most advanced networks in the world, as well as emerging markets where there is more opportunity for mobile broadband capacity and coverage. In South East Asia and Oceania (excluding India), 3G is still the dominant technology, at 44% of all subscriptions in 2019. However, LTE subscriptions grew by approximately 35% during 2019, taking a 34% share of total mobile subscriptions in the region. In India, as a result of the strong growth in the number of LTE subscriptions over the past couple of years, LTE has emerged as the dominant technology during 2019. By year end 2019, LTE accounted for 48% of total mobile sub- scriptions, and the share of 2G subscriptions stood at 41%.
Our philosophies We have defined a set of people philosophies to build greater transparency and alignment about what informs some of our most critical people related decisions, and to reinforce our commitment to compliance and the impor- tance of demonstrating ethical and responsi- ble business practices in everything we do. We believe that: – Every individual is a talent. – We perform at our best when we know 
We are convinced that digitalization and mobile broadband networks will help tackle some of the global challenges our world faces today. We aim to be a trusted partner com mitted to building a better future for all stakeholders. In particular, the Company is delivering solutions that help customers and other industries be more efficient by reducing their energy consumption and climate impacts. We believe that combining business and societal value is the best way to create long term value for Ericsson. 
The resolution relates to historical FCPA breaches ending Q1 2017. While the Company had a compliance program and a supporting control framework, they were not adequately implemented. Specifically, certain employees in some markets, some of whom were executives in those markets, acted in bad faith and knowingly failed to implement sufficient controls. They were able to enter 
In 2012 and 2013, Intellectual Ventures (“IV”) filed patent infringement lawsuits in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware accusing some of Ericsson’s US customers of infringing 16 US Patents, seeking an injunction and monetary damages. IV subsequently filed additional lawsuits in the District of Delaware accusing some of Ericsson’s US customers of infringing 12 US Patents, seeking monetary damages. In 2017, IV filed additional lawsuits in the Eastern District of Texas accusing Ericsson and some of Ericsson’s U.S customers of infringing ten US Patents. In February 2019, a jury awarded IV damages of USD 43 million in one of those lawsuits. In June 2019 Ericsson announced that Ericsson and IV had signed a license agreement ending all patent infringement lawsuits between the companies. 
In some special circumstances where individuals cannot participate in the local pension plans of their home coun- tries of employment:
Additional arrangements By way of exception, additional arrangements can be made when deemed appropriate and necessary to recruit or retain an individual. Such arrangement could be in the form of short-term or long-term variable compensation or fixed component and can be renewed, but each such arrangement shall be limited in time and shall not exceed a period of 36 months and twice the annual fixed salary that the individual would have received if no additional arrangements were made. In addition, if appropriate, different measures and targets may be applied to the new appointment’s incentives in the first year. In addition, it may on a case by case basis be decided by the Board and the Committee respectively to compensate an individual for remuneration forfeited from a previous employer during recruitment. The Board and the Committee will consider on a case by case basis if all or some of the remuneration including incentives forfeited need to be ’bought-out’. If there is a buy-out of forfeited incentives, this will take into account relevant factors including the form they were granted (cash vs. shares), performance conditions attached to these awards and the time they would have vested/ paid. Generally, buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
upon delivery of the hardware or software, or completion of installation ser- vices. A proportion of the transaction price may be billed upon formal accep- tance of the related installation services, which will result in a contract asset for the proportion of the transaction price that is not yet billed. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days. 
Customized solution Some products and services are sold together as part of a customized solution to the customer. This type of contract requires significant installation and integration services to be delivered within the solution, normally over a period of more than one year. These products and services are viewed together as a combined performance obligation. This type of contract is usually sold as 
Transaction price under these contracts is usually a fixed fee, split into a number of progress payments or billing milestones as defined in the contract. In most cases, revenue recognized is limited to the progress payments or unconditional billing milestones over the duration of the contract, therefore no contract asset or contract liability arises on these contracts. In some contracts, revenue may be recognized in advance of billing milestones if enforceable payment rights exist at all times over the contract duration. This will result in an unbilled receivable balance until billing milestones are reached. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days. 
based on sales or usage over the period, measured on a quarterly basis. This results in a receivable balance if the billing is performed the following quarter after measurement. Some contracts include lump sum amounts, payable either up front at commencement or on an annual basis. This results in a contract liability balance if payment is in advance of revenue, as revenue is recognized over time. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date.
Accounting policies applied as of January 2019 – IFRS 16 Leases Leasing when the Company is the lessee The Company recognizes right-of-use assets and lease liabilities arising from all leases in the balance sheet, with some exceptions. This model reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee always obtains the right to use an asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay for that right.
The amount charged to the income statement for these plans is reversed in equity each time of the income statement charge. The reason for this IFRS accounting principle is that compensation cost for a share-settled program is a cost with no direct cash flow impact. All plans have service conditions and some of them have performance or market conditions. 
previously classified as operating leases. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities recognized in the balance sheet at the transition date was 5.4%. Right-of-use assets have for most contracts been recognized based on the amount equal to the related lease liability. For some larger real estate contracts right-of-use assets have been recognized as if IFRS 16 had been applied since the commencement date, however, using the incremental borrowing rate as per the effective date. The asset value for these contracts is SEK 0.2 billion lower than the related liabilities. This difference caused a reduction of equity as per transition date.
securities such as treasury bills, government bonds, commercial papers, and mortgage-covered bonds (see Liquidity risk section below). Separate credit  limits are assigned to each counterpart in order to minimize risk concentration. All derivative transactions are covered by ISDA netting agreements to reduce the credit risk. For cross-currency swaps a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to ISDA is signed to further reduce the credit risk by exchanging collateral weekly against market value. The Company has also moved some derivative expo- sures to clearing counterparties with daily settlement of margins.
Financial instruments carried at other than fair value Financial instruments, such as some cash equivalents, interest-bearing securities, borrowings and payables, are carried at amortized cost which is deemed to be equal to fair value. When a market price is not readily available and there is insign i ficant interest rate exposure and credit spreads affecting the value, the carrying value is considered to represent a reasonable estimate of fair value. 
Market price risk in own shares and other listed equity investments The Company is exposed to fluctuations in its own share price (through stock purchase plans for employees) and other share-based compensation for employees and the Board of Directors. Some of the plans are share-settled and some are cash-settled as further disclosed in note A1, “Significant accounting policies” and note G3, “Share-based compensation.”
1.2 Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncertainty, geopolitical risks and trade frictions may adversely impact the demand, cost and pricing for our products and services as well as limit our ability to grow. Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncertainty, geopolitical risks and trade frictions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers. This could cause operators and other customers to postpone investments or initiate other cost-cutting initiatives to maintain or improve their financial position. This could also result in significantly reduced expenditures for our products and services, includ- ing network infrastructure, in which case our operating results would suffer. Geopolitical risks and trade frictions, e.g. between China and the US, could negatively impact our global operations, including research & development and supply chain in those and other countries, as they may lead to tariffs or increased costs that may not be recoverable and may impact our profitability and/or disrupt our international product devel- opment, supply chain (including component supply, manufacturing, sourcing and deliveries of products and services) as well as our export and import activities. If demand for our products and services were to fall, we could experience material adverse effects on our revenues, cash flow, capital employed and value of our assets and we could incur operating losses. Furthermore, if demand is significantly weaker or more volatile than expected, our credit rating, borrowing opportunities and costs as well as the trading price of our shares could be adversely impacted. Should global economic conditions fail to improve or worsen or should political unrest and uncertainty or geopolitical problems fail to improve or worsen, other business risks we face could intensify and could also negatively impact the business prospects of operators and other customers. Some operators and other customers, in particular in markets with weak currencies, may incur funding difficulties and slower traffic development, which may negatively affect their investment plans and cause them to purchase less of our products and services. 
1.5 We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring activities and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. Restructuring activities may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to achieve and retain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accu- mulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees’ time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and negative impacts on the business such as our ability to develop, sell and deliver, and we cannot be sure that any ongoing or future restructuring efforts will be successful or generate expected cost savings. Factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, reputa- tion and share price.
1.11 We face intense competition from our existing competitors as well as new entrants, and this could materially adversely affect our results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive in terms of price, functionality, service quality, customization, timing of develop- ment, and the introduction of new products and services. We face intense competition from significant competitors, many of which are very large, with substantial technological and financial resources and established relationships with operators. We also encounter increased competition from new market entrants and alternative technologies are evolving industry standards. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, offer more attractively priced or enhanced products, services or solutions, or they may offer other incentives that we do not provide. Some of our competitors may also have greater resources in certain business segments or geographic markets than we do. Increased competition could result in reduced profit margins, loss of market share, increased research and development costs as well as increased sales and marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share. 
Furthermore, our procurement of supplies requires us to predict future customer demands. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an over or under supply of components and production capac- ity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same manufacturers and if they have purchased capacity ahead of us we could be blocked from acquiring the needed products. This factor could limit our ability to supply our customers and increase costs. At the same time, we commit to certain capacity levels or component quantities, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity or scrapping costs. We are also exposed to financial counterpart risks to suppliers when we pay in advance for supplies. Such supply disruptions and cost increases may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.
1.15 Certain long-term agreements with customers include commit- ments to future price reductions, requiring us to constantly manage and control our cost base. Long-term agreements with our customers are typically awarded on a competitive bidding basis. In some cases, such agreements also include a commitment to future price reductions. In order to maintain our gross margin with such price reductions, we continuously strive to reduce the costs of our products through design improvements, negotiation of better purchase prices from our suppliers, allocation of more production to low-cost countries and increased productivity in our own production. However, there can be no assurance that our actions to reduce costs will be sufficient or quick enough to maintain our gross margin in such contracts, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
1.16 If our customers’ financial conditions decline, we will be exposed to increased credit and commercial risks. After completing sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty col- lecting accounts receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectable accounts receivable. We regularly assess the credit worthiness of our customers and based on that assessment we deter- mine a credit limit for each one of them. Challenging economic condi- tions have impacted some of our customers’ ability to pay their invoices. We may be unable to avoid future losses on our trade receivables. We have also experienced demands for customer financing, and in adverse financial markets or more competitive environments, those demands may increase. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we may experi- ence losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to our commercial risk exposure, and the loss of the customer’s ongoing business. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.
Moreover, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to establish and enforce our proprietary rights. In fact, existing legal systems of some countries in which we conduct business offer only limited protection of intellectual property rights, if at all. Our solutions may also require us to license technologies from third-parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses and there can be no assurance that they will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third-parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to protect proprietary rights in our products. 
There has been a concern reported by some media and others, that certain countries may use features of their telecommunications systems in ways that could result in potential violation of human rights. This 
and the systems and storage and other business applications main- tained by our third-party providers, have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to cyber intrusions, including attempts to gain unauthorized access, breach, malfeasance or other system disruptions. In some cases, it is difficult to anticipate or to detect immediately such incidents and the damage caused thereby. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs in our network or any of our third-party provid- ers’ networks, we could incur significant costs and our reputation could be harmed. While we work to safeguard our internal network systems and validate the security of our third party providers to mitigate these potential risks, including through information security policies and employee awareness and training, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cyber-attacks or security breaches.
4.2 The presence of vulnerabilities in Ericsson’s products, services or operations, may not be detected during product development and operations, and may be leveraged by a threat actor to cause mate- rial harm to Ericsson or Ericsson’s customers. Products and Infrastructure used by Ericsson may contain vulner- abilities that can be leveraged by a threat actor. In some situations, it may be impossible to detect these vulnerabilities due to their location, or due to the fact that they are unknown vulnerabilities, often referred to as “0-Day Vulnerability”. By the very nature of these vulnerabilities it is incredibly difficult for Ericsson to guarantee that the products and ser- vices provided by Ericsson are free from such vulnerabilities. Likewise, the Infrastructure that Ericsson relies on may also contain undetected or unmitigated vulnerabilities.
5.2 We may fail to comply with our corporate governance stan- dards, which could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation and brand. We are subject to corporate governance laws and regulations as well as several sustainability and corporate responsibility requirements. In some of the countries where we operate, corruption risks are high and compliance failure could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and brand, see “US FCPA investigations” in Board of Directors report. Therefore there is a high focus on anti-corruption. To ensure that our operations are conducted in accordance with applicable laws and requirements, our management system includes a Code of Business Ethics, a Code of Conduct for Business Partners and a Sustainability Policy, as well as other Group Policies and Directives to govern our processes and operations. However, our commitment to apply the UN Global Compact ten principles, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and principles of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative to our operations cannot fully prevent unintended or unlawful use of our technology by democratic and non-democratic regimes, violation of our Code of Busi- ness Ethics, corruption, fraud, embezzlement, or violations of anti-trust legislation, trade restrictions and international sanctions or our Code of Conduct for Business Partners in Ericsson or in the supply chain. There is also an increased demand from external stakeholders, for example non-governmental organizations and investors, on transparency about sustainability and corporate responsibility issues that might be difficult to fulfill. While we attempt to monitor and audit internally and externally our compliance with the policies and directives as well as our suppliers’ adherence to our Code of Conduct and strive for continuous improve- ments, we cannot provide any assurances that violations will not occur which could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, and brand.
The words “believe”, “expect”, “foresee”, “anticipate”, “assume”, “intend”, “likely”, “projects”, “may”, “could”, “plan”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “will”, “should”, “would”, “predict”, “aim”, “ambition”, “seek”, “potential”, “target”, “might”, “continue”, or, in each case, their negative or variations, and similar words or expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Any statement that refers to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. 
External rules As a Swedish public limited liability company with securities quoted on Nasdaq Stockholm as well as on NASDAQ New York, Ericsson is subject to a variety of rules that affect its governance. Some relevant external rules applicable to Ericsson’s governance include: – The Swedish Companies Act – Applicable EU regulations – The Rule Book for Issuers, Nasdaq Stockholm – The Swedish Corporate Governance Code 
establish an adequate and effective manage­ ment of risk, i.e. the uncertainty in achieving the strategic objectives of the company. The framework provides methods to identify, assess and treat the risks, and to agree on the Company’s risk appetite and risk tolerance. The ERM framework is based on five ele­ ments (illustrated above and described in the following text). It is applied across Ericsson’s operations and covers business areas, market areas and group functions. The framework comprises the minimum requirements that the units must meet to have a common basis for ERM to enable transparency and risk oversight. 
The Committee throughout the year approved adjustments and changes to individual remuneration packages of some of the  members of the ET.
“We are convinced that digitalization and mobile broadband networks will help tackle some of the global challenges our world faces today. We aim to be a trusted partner committed to building a better future for all stakeholders.”
Corporate Investigations closed 566 cases in 2019, including some related to compliance concerns reported before 2019. As of Decem­ ber 31, 2019, 167 cases remained open, all of which relate to compliance concerns reported in 2019. See Reported Compliance Concerns graph reported by category.
Below some diversity indicators for 2019: – Early engagement of the Company’s 
In all mobile networks, including the fifth generation (5G), connected devices communi­ cate with base stations using radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (EMF), also known as radio waves. Since the adoption of mobile telephony in the 1990s there has been some public concern that the radio waves from mobile phones and base stations may cause adverse health effects. Expert groups and public health authorities, including the World Health Organization (WHO, fact sheets 193 and 304), have reviewed available scientific studies and have concluded that the balance of evidence does not demonstrate any health effects associated with radio wave exposure from either mobile phones or radio base sta­ tions complying with international limits.
 – Absence of scalable sustainable solutions in some regions could adversely impact Ericsson’s own activities strategy and target fulfillment.
Text på märket:
