2020 net sales growth driven by Networks In 2018 Ericsson reported an organic and FX adjusted sales growth of 1%. The 2020 ambi- tion for company net sales is SEK 210–220 billion (based on a USD to SEK rate of 8.70), to be compared with SEK 210.8 billion in 2018. Growth is mainly expected in Networks, driven by a growing radio access network (RAN) market and selective gains in mar- ket share. This will be partly offset by contin- ued descoping of some businesses follow- ing implementation of the focused business strategy. 
On top of the cost efficiency payback, tele com operators have options to address new incremental revenue opportunities based on their market specifics. For some, fixed wireless access will be a key growth opportunity to address a new market or underserved customers. Fixed wireless access is starting in North America where 5G services already were launched in 2018, but we see it gaining momentum also in other parts of the world. 
Our philosophies To build greater transparency and alignment about what informs some of our most critical people related decisions, we defined a set of people philosophies. 
Learning and development We have a comprehensive digital learning portal, called Ericsson Academy, which is inte- grated with our Performance Management and Learning Management systems. It con- nects employees to over 23,000 educational experiences – some self-paced and others instructor-led that drive upskilling and re- skilling. The average learning hours in 2018 was 21.3 hours. 
Market trends South East Asia and Oceania includes developed markets with some of the most advanced networks in the world, as well as developing economies that have only recently launched LTE. 3G is still the domi- nant technology, at 48% of all sub scriptions. However, LTE subscriptions grew by 70% during 2018, taking a share of 26%. 
Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities reached SEK 9.3 (9.6) billion. Working capital efficiency has improved as a result of a strong focus on cash flow. The business growth in 2018 and high delivery and invoicing volumes towards the end of the year led to some build-up of trade receivables, to be collected in the coming periods. Inventory and trade payables also increased to meet customer demand in a growing market. The combined working capi- tal KPI (sales outstanding days plus inventory days less payable days) improved to 89 (102) days. The ambition is to maintain working capital efficiency and thereby effectively convert income to cash. Cash outlays related to provisions were SEK –6.9 (–8.2) billion, of which cash outlays related to restructuring charges were SEK –4.1 (–5.3) billion. 
In 2012 and 2013, Intellectual Ventures (“IV”) filed patent infringement lawsuits in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware accusing some of Ericsson’s U.S. customers of infringing 16 U.S. Patents,  seeking an injunction and monetary dam- ages. Ericsson’s customers were successful in a number of dispositive motions before trial. This matter is currently on appeal before the Federal Circuit. 
IV subsequently filed additional lawsuits in the District of Delaware accusing some of Ericsson’s U.S. customers of infringing 12 U.S. Patents, seeking monetary damages. Ericsson successfully invalidated a number of IV’s patents through inter partes review proceed- ings. Ericsson and its customers also were successful on a variety of dispositive motions before trial. IV appealed a number of these rulings to the Federal Circuit. One claim of one patent survived these appeals and has been remanded to the District of Delaware.
Eastern District of Texas accusing Ericsson and some of Ericsson’s U.S customers of infringing 10 U.S. Patents. In February 2019, a jury awarded IV damages of USD 43 million in one of those lawsuits. Ericsson disagrees with the jury’s verdict and intends to appeal. Separately, the Patent Trial and Appeal Board has instituted a review of the patents that were the subject of the February 2019 trial, following its finding that there is a reasonable likelihood that those patents are unpatent- able. The next case is currently set to go to trial in May 2019.
upon delivery of the hardware or software and completion of installation services. A proportion of the transaction price may be billed upon formal acceptance of the related installation services, which will result in a contract asset for the proportion of the transaction price that is not yet billed. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days. 
Customized solution Some products and services are sold together as part of a customized solution to the customer. This type of contract requires significant installation and integration services to be delivered within the solution, normally over a period of more than 1 year. These products and services are viewed together as a combined performance obligation. This type of contract is usually sold as 
Transaction price under these contracts is usually a fixed fee, split into a number of progress payments or billing milestones as defined in the contract. In most cases, revenue recognized is limited to the progress payments or unconditional billing milestones over the duration of the contract, therefore no contract asset or contract liability arises on these contracts. In some contracts, revenue may be recognized in advance of billing milestones if enforceable payment rights exist at all times over the contract duration. This will result in an unbilled receivable balance until billing milestones are reached. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days. 
The transaction price on these contracts is usually structured as a royalty fee based on sales or usage over the period, measured on a quarterly basis. This results in a receivable balance if the billing is performed the following quarter after measurement. Some contracts include lump sum amounts, payable either up front at commencement or on an annual basis. This results in a contract liability balance if payment is in advance of revenue, as revenue is recognized over time. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date.
The amount charged to the income statement for these plans is reversed in equity each time of the income statement charge. The reason for this IFRS accounting principle is that compensation cost for a share settled program is a cost with no direct cash flow impact. All plans have service conditions and some of them have performance or market conditions. For further detailed information, see Note G3, “Share-based compensation.” 
leases previously classified as operating leases. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate to be applied to lease liabilities recognized in the balance sheet at the transition date is estimated to 5.4%. Right-of-use assets will for most contracts be recognized based on the amount equal to the related lease liability. For some larger real estate contracts right-of-use assets are recognized as if IFRS 16 had been applied since the commencement date, however, using the incremental borrowing rate as per the effective date. The asset value for these contracts is estimated to be SEK 0.3 billion lower than the related liabilities. It is this differences that causes the reduction of equity as per transition date.
Accounting for lessees The standard requires assets and liabilities arising from all leases, with some exceptions, to be recognized on the balance sheet. This model reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee always obtains the right to use an asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay for that right. 
2017, IV filed additional lawsuits in the Eastern District of Texas accusing Ericsson and some of Ericsson’s U.S customers of infringing 10 U.S. Patents. In February 2019, a jury awarded IV damages of USD 43 million in one of those lawsuits. Ericsson disagrees with the jury’s verdict and intends to appeal. Separately, the Patent Trial and Appeal Board has instituted review of the patents that were the subject of the February 2019 trial, following its findings that there is a reasonable likelihood that those patents are  unpatentable. The next case is currently set to go to trial in May 2019. 
1) Prior to 2018, some of the derivatives hedging non-current liabilities are recognized in the balance 
Financial instruments carried at other than fair value Financial instruments, such as some cash equivalents, interest-bearing securities, borrowings and payables, are carried at amortized cost which is deemed to be equal to fair value. When a market price is not readily available and there is insign i ficant interest rate exposure and credit spreads affecting the value, the carrying value is considered to represent a reasonable estimate of fair value. 
Market price risk in own shares and other listed equity investments The Company is exposed to fluctuations in its own share price (through stock purchase plans for employees) and other share-based compensation for employees and the Board of Directors. Some of the plans are share settled and some are cash settled as further disclosed in Note A1, “Significant accounting policies” and Note G3, “Share-based compensation.”
1) In 2017 some of the derivatives hedging non-current liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet 
Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncertainty, geopolitical risks and trade frictions may adversely impact the demand, cost and pricing for our products and services as well as limit our ability to grow. Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncertainty, geopolitical risks and trade frictions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers. This could cause operators and other customers to postpone investments or initiate other cost-cutting initiatives to main- tain or improve their financial position. This could also result in signifi- cantly reduced expenditures for our products and services, including network infrastructure, in which case our operating results would suffer. Geopolitical risks and trade frictions, e.g. between China and the USA, could negatively impact our global operations and global supply chain which may lead to tariffs or increased costs that may not be recoverable and may impact our profitability and/or disrupt our inter- national supply chain (including component supply, manufacturing, sourcing and deliveries of products and services) as well as our export and import activities. If demand for our products and services were to fall, we could experience material adverse effects on our revenues, cash flow, capital employed and value of our assets and we could incur operating losses. Furthermore, if demand is significantly weaker or more volatile than expected, our credit rating, borrowing opportunities and costs as well as the trading price of our shares could be adversely impacted. Should global economic conditions fail to improve or worsen or should political unrest and uncertainty or geopolitical problems fail to improve or worsen, other business risks we face could intensify and could also negatively impact the business prospects of operators and other customers. Some operators and other customers, in particular in markets with weak currencies, may incur funding difficulties and slower traffic development, which may negatively affect their investment plans and cause them to purchase less of our products and services. The potential adverse effects of an economic downturn include: – Reduced demand for products and services, resulting in increased 
We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring activities and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. Restructuring activities may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to achieve and retain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accu- mulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees’ time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and negative impacts on the business such as our ability to develop, sell and deliver, and we cannot be sure that any ongoing or future restructuring efforts will be successful or generate expected cost savings. Factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, reputation and share price.
We face intense competition from our existing competitors as well as new entrants,and this could materially adversely affect our results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive in terms of price, functionality, service quality, customization, timing of devel- opment, and the introduction of new products and services. We face intense competition from significant competitors, many of which are very large, with substantial technological and financial resources and established relationships with operators. We also encounter increased competition from new market entrants and alternative technologies are evolving industry standards. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, offer more attractively priced or enhanced products, services or solutions, or they may offer other incentives that we do not provide. Some of our competitors may also have greater resources in certain business segments or geographic markets than we do. Increased competition could result in reduced profit margins, loss of market share, increased research and development costs as well as increased sales and marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share.
Certain long-term agreements with customers include commitments to future price reductions, requiring us to constantly manage and control our cost base. Long-term agreements with our customers are typically awarded on a competitive bidding basis. In some cases, such agreements also include a commitment to future price reductions. In order to maintain our gross margin with such price reductions, we continuously strive to reduce the costs of our products through design improvements, negotiation of better purchase prices from our suppliers, allocation of more production to low-cost countries and increased productivity in our own production. However, there can be no assurance that our actions to reduce costs will be sufficient or quick enough to maintain our gross margin in such contracts, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Furthermore, our procurement of supplies requires us to predict future customer demands. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an over or under supply of components and production cap- acity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same manufacturers and if they have purchased capacity ahead of us we could be blocked from acquiring the needed products. This factor could limit our ability to supply our customers and increase costs. At the same time, we commit to certain capacity levels or component quantities, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity or scrapping costs. We are also exposed to financial counterpart risks to suppliers when we pay in advance for supplies. Such supply disrup- tions and cost increases may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.
Moreover, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to establish and enforce our proprietary rights. In fact, existing legal systems of some countries in which we conduct business offer only limited protection of intellectual property rights, if at all. Our solutions may also require us to license technologies from third-parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses and there can be no assurance that they will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third-parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to protect proprietary rights in our products.
The presence of vulnerabilities in Ericsson’s products, services or operations, may not be detected during product development and operations, and may be leveraged by a threat actor to cause mate- rial harm to Ericsson or Ericsson’s customers. Products and Infrastructure used by Ericsson may contain vulnera- bilities that can be leveraged by a threat actor. In some situations, it may be impossible to detect these vulnerabilities due to their location, or due to the fact that they are unknown vulnerabilities, often referred to as “0-Day Vulnerability”. By the very nature of these vulnerabilities it is incredibly difficult for Ericsson to guarantee that the products and services provided by Ericsson are free from such vulnerabilities. Likewise, the Infrastructure that Ericsson relies on may also contain undetected or unmitigated vulnerabilities.
If our customers’ financial conditions decline, we will be exposed to increased credit and commercial risks. After completing sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivables and could be exposed to risks associ- ated with uncollectable accounts receivable. We regularly assess the credit worthiness of our customers and based on that assessment we determine a credit limit for each one of them. Challenging economic conditions have impacted some of our customers’ ability to pay their invoices. We may be unable to avoid future losses on our trade receiv- ables. We have also experienced demands for customer financing, and in adverse financial markets or more competitive environments, those demands may increase. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we may experience losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to our commercial risk exposure, and the loss of the customer’s ongoing business. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 
There has been a concern reported by some media and others, that certain countries may use features of their telecommunications systems in ways that could result in potential violation of human rights. This may adversely affect the telecommunications business and may have a negative impact for people, our reputation and brand. 
We may fail to comply with our corporate governance standards, which could negatively affect our business, operating results,  financial condition, reputation and brand. We are subject to corporate governance laws and regulations as well as several sustainability and corporate responsibility requirements. In some of the countries where we operate, corruption risks are high and compliance failure could have a material impact on our business, finan- cial condition and brand, see “Inquiries from US authorities” in Board of Directors report. Therefore there is a high focus on anti-corruption. To ensure that our operations are conducted in accordance with applicable laws and requirements, our management system includes a Code of Business Ethics, a Code of Conduct and a Sustainability Policy, as well as other Group Policies and Directives to govern our processes and operations. However, our commitment to apply the UN Global Compact ten principles, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and principles of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative to our operations cannot fully 
The words “believe,” “expect,” “foresee,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “intend,” “likely,” “projects,” “may,” “could,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “predict,” “aim,” “ambition,” “seek,” “potential,” “tar- get,” “might,” “continue,” or, in each case, their negative or variations, and similar words or expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Any statement that refers to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. 
sive anti-bribery and corruption risk assess- ment in its Market Areas which led to some adjustments to and further improvements of the program. 
In all mobile networks, connected devices communicate with base stations using radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (EMF), also known as radio waves. The adoption of mobile telephony since the 1990s has created some public concern that the radio waves from mobile phones and base stations may cause adverse health effects. Expert groups and public health authorities, including the World Health Organization (WHO, fact sheets 193 and 304), have reviewed available scientific studies and have concluded that the balance of evidence does not demonstrate any health effects associated with radio wave exposure from either mobile phones or radio base sta- tions complying with international limits.
The results show that, by weight, the sec- tors represent only about 0.5% of the global annual usage of sector-relevant materials. However, for some materials such as indium, gallium and germanium, the ICT and E&M sectors represent as much as 80–90% of the overall usage. While 0.5% of the usage is a very small amount, toxicity and resource- depletion results shows that the ICT and E&M sectors have a more substantial impact than their share of materials indicates.
Text på märket:
