 – Profitable: growth is managed for positive returns and to support Group financial targets. New contracts for increased mar- ket footprint, may in some cases be associ- ated with challenging near-term returns as the cost for telecom operators to change vendors can be high, however contracts are expected to be profitable over time.
5G – new revenue opportunities With 5G our industry will move beyond con- necting people; it will also connect machines and things. 5G is a powerful platform for inno- vation, opening up new revenue opportunities for telecom operators in both the consumer segment and the enterprise segment. We are already seeing that 5G is supporting telecom operators to deliver new, differentiating services to consumers with upside revenue potential, and there is also significant upside revenue potential for telecom operators who invest in delivering new 5G enterprise services. Our studies show that, globally, telecom operators could see an additional revenue opportunity of some USD 700 billion by 2030, driven by industry sectors such as healthcare, manufacturing and automotive.
In some special circumstances where individuals cannot participate in the local pension plans of their home countries of employment:
Additional arrangements By way of exception, additional arrangements can be made when deemed appropriate and necessary to recruit or retain an individual. Such arrangement could be in the form of short-term or long-term variable compensation or fixed component and can be renewed, but each such arrangement shall be limited in time and shall not exceed a period of 36 months and twice the annual fixed salary that the individual would have received if no additional arrangements were made. In addition, if appropriate, different measures and targets may be applied to the new appointment’s incentives in the first year. In addition, it may on a case by case basis be decided by the Board and the Committee respectively to compensate an individual for remuneration forfeited from a previous employer during recruitment. The Board and the Committee will consider on a case by case basis if all or some of the remuneration including incentives forfeited need to be ’bought-out’. If there is a buy-out of forfeited incentives, this will take into account relevant factors including the form they were granted (cash vs. shares), performance conditions attached to these awards and the time they would have vested/ paid. Generally, buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
upon delivery of the hardware or software, or completion of installation ser- vices. A proportion of the transaction price may be billed upon formal accept- ance of the related installation services, which will result in a contract asset for the proportion of the transaction price that is not yet billed. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days. 
Customized solution Some products and services are sold together as part of a customized solution to the customer. This type of contract requires significant installation and integration services to be delivered within the solution, normally over a period of more than one year. These products and services are viewed together as a combined performance obligation. This type of contract is usually sold as a firm contract in which the scope of the solution and obligations of both parties are clearly defined for the duration of the contract. Customized solution does not have any alternative use to the Company as it cannot be sold to or used by other customers.
Transaction price under these contracts is usually a fixed fee, split into a number of progress payments or billing milestones as defined in the contract. In most cases, revenue recognized is limited to the progress payments or unconditional billing milestones over the duration of the contract, therefore no contract asset or contract liability arises on these contracts. In some contracts, revenue may be recognized in advance of billing milestones if enforceable payment rights exist at all times over the contract duration. This will result in an unbilled receivable balance until billing milestones are reached. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days.
based on sales or usage over the period, measured on a quarterly basis. This results in a receivable balance if the billing is performed the following quarter after measurement. Some contracts include lump sum amounts, payable either up front at commencement or on an annual basis. This results in a contract liability balance if payment is in advance of revenue, as revenue is recognized over time. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date.
Share-settled plans Compensation costs are recognized during the vesting period, based on the fair value of the Ericsson share at the grant date, as well as considering perfor- mance – and market conditions. Examples of performance conditions could be revenue and profit targets while market conditions relate to the development of the Parent Company’s share price in relation to a group of reference shares. For share-settled plans, a corresponding increase in equity shall be rec- ognized. The reason for this IFRS accounting principle is that compensation cost for a share-settled program is a cost with no direct cash flow impact. All plans have service conditions and some of them have performance or market conditions.
Supplier payments program Judgments made in relation to accounting policies applied With the aim of increasing working capital efficiency, Ericsson continuously renegotiates payment days with suppliers. The negotiations with suppliers for payment days is an integral part of the procurement activities. Some 
securities such as treasury bills, government bonds, commercial papers, and mortgage-covered bonds (see Liquidity risk section below). Separate credit limits are assigned to each counterpart in order to minimize risk concentration. All derivative transactions are covered by ISDA netting agreements to reduce the credit risk. For cross-currency swaps a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to ISDA is signed to further reduce the credit risk by exchanging collateral weekly against market value. The Company has also moved some derivative expo- sures to clearing counterparties with daily settlement of margins.
Fair valuation of the Company’s financial instruments The Company’s financial instruments accounted for at fair value generally meet the requirements of level 1 valuation as they are based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets. For some of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, especially derivatives, quoted prices are not readily avail- able and fair values are calculated using market inputs such as interest rate quotes and currency rates.
Financial instruments carried at amortized cost Financial instruments, such as some cash equivalents, interest-bearing securi- ties, borrowings and payables, are carried at amortized cost which is deemed to be equal to fair value. When a market price is not readily available and there is insignificant interest rate exposure and credit spreads affecting the value, the carrying value is considered to represent a reasonable estimate of fair value.
Market price risk in own shares and other listed equity investments The Company is exposed to fluctuations in its own share price through share- based compensation for employees and the Board of Directors. Some of the plans are share-settled and some are cash-settled as further disclosed in note A1 “Significant accounting policies”, note G2 “Information regarding members of the Board of Directors and Group management” and note G3 “Share-based compensation.”
1.2 Challenging global economic conditions may adversely impact the demand, cost and pricing for our products and services as well as limit our ability to grow. The challenging global economic conditions, e.g. due to the pandemic, downturn in the global economy, political unrest and uncertainty or geopolitical risks and trade frictions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our custom- ers. This could cause operators and other customers to postpone invest- ments or initiate other cost-cutting initiatives to maintain or improve their financial position. This could also result in significantly reduced expenditures for our products and services, including network infra- structure, in which case our operating results would suffer. If demand for our products and services were to fall, we could experience material adverse effects on our revenues, cash flow, capital employed and value of our assets and we could incur operating losses. Furthermore, if demand is significantly weaker or more volatile than expected, our credit rating, borrowing opportunities and costs as well as the trading price of our shares could be adversely impacted. Should global economic condi- tions fail to improve or worsen or should political unrest and uncertainty or geopolitical problems fail to improve or worsen, other business risks we face could intensify and could also negatively impact the business prospects of operators and other customers. Some operators and other customers, in particular in markets with weak currencies, may incur funding difficulties and slower traffic development, which may nega- tively affect their investment plans and cause them to purchase less of our products and services.
implement new technologies before we do, offer more attractively priced or enhanced products, services or solutions, or they may offer other incentives that we do not provide. Some of our competitors may also have greater resources in certain business segments or geographic areas than we do. Increased competition could result in reduced profit margins, loss of market share, increased research and development costs as well as increased sales and marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results,  financial condition and market share.
Furthermore, our procurement of supplies requires us to predict future customer demands. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an over or under supply of components and production cap- acity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same manufacturers and if they have purchased capacity ahead of us we could be blocked from acquiring the needed products. This factor could limit our ability to supply our customers and increase costs. At the same time, we commit to certain capacity levels or component quanti- ties, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity, not fully recoverable costs or scrapping costs. We are also exposed to financial 
1.15 Certain long-term agreements with customers include commit- ments to future price reductions, requiring us to constantly manage and control our cost base. Long-term agreements with our customers are typically awarded on a competitive bidding basis. In some cases, such agreements also include a commitment to future price reductions. In order to maintain our gross margin with such price reductions, we continuously strive to reduce the costs of our products through design improvements, negotiation of better purchase prices from our suppliers, allocation of more production to low-cost countries and increased productivity in our own production. However, there can be no assurance that our actions to reduce costs will be sufficient or quick enough to maintain our gross margin in such contracts, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
1.16 If our customers’ financial conditions decline, we will be exposed to increased credit and commercial risks. After completing sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty col- lecting accounts receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectable accounts receivable. We regularly assess the credit worthiness of our customers and based on that assessment we deter- mine a credit limit for each one of them. Challenging economic condi- tions have impacted some of our customers’ ability to pay their invoices. 
Moreover, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to establish and enforce our proprietary rights. In fact, existing legal systems of some countries in which we 
1.24 We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring activities and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. Restructuring activities may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to achieve and retain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accu- mulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees’ time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and negative impacts on the business such as our ability to develop, sell and deliver, and we cannot be sure that any ongoing or future restructuring efforts will be successful or generate expected cost savings. Factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows,  reputation and share price.
There has been a concern reported by some media and others, that certain countries may use features of their telecommunications systems in ways that could result in potential violation of human rights. This may adversely affect the telecommunications business and may have a negative impact for people, our reputation and brand.
Our network systems and storage and other business applications, and the systems, storage and other business applications maintained by our third-party providers, have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to cyber intrusions, including attempts to gain unauthor- ized access, breach, malfeasance or other system disruptions. In some cases, it is difficult to anticipate or to detect immediately such incidents and the damage caused thereby. If an actual or perceived breaches of security occurs in our network or any of our third-party providers’ 
4.2 The presence of vulnerabilities in Ericsson’s products, services or operations, may not be detected during product development and operations, and may be leveraged by a threat actor to cause material harm to Ericsson or Ericsson’s customers. Products and infrastructure used by Ericsson may contain vulnerabilities that can be leveraged by a threat actor. In some situations, it may be impossible to detect these vulnerabilities due to their location, or due to the fact that they are unknown vulnerabilities, often referred to as “zero day vulnerabilities”. By the very nature of these vulnerabilities it is extremely difficult for Ericsson to guarantee that the products and ser- vices provided by Ericsson are free from such vulnerabilities. Likewise, the Infrastructure that Ericsson relies on may also contain undetected or unmitigated vulnerabilities.
The words “believe”, “expect”, “foresee”, “anticipate”, “assume”, “intend”, “likely”, “projects”, “may”, “could”, “plan”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “will”, “should”, “would”, “predict”, “aim”, “ambition”, “seek”, “potential”, “target”, “might”, “continue”, or, in each case, their negative or variations, and similar words or expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Any statement that refers to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. 
External rules As a Swedish public limited liability company with securities quoted on Nasdaq Stockholm as well as on NASDAQ New York, Ericsson is subject to a variety of rules that affect its governance. Some relevant external rules applicable to Ericsson’s governance include: – The Swedish Companies Act – Applicable EU regulations – Nordic Main Market Rulebook for Issuers of 
following text). It is applied across Ericsson’s operations and covers business areas, market areas and group functions. The framework comprises the minimum requirements that the units must meet to have a common basis for ERM to enable transparency and risk oversight. 
Some of the topics addressed in 2020 include human rights, anti-corruption, health, safety and well-being, responsible sourcing, climate action, energy performance, digital inclusion and sustainable development. Stakeholder engagement takes a variety of forms such as joint projects, advocacy, meetings, surveys 
Ericsson’s aim to achieving gender balance by 2020 was driven by ambitious, local recruit- ment targets, increased awareness raising, and activation through local and global initia- tives. The year 2020 was spent investing in expertise to develop a new approach to D&I as well as launching several foundational initia- tives that will deliver continued impact over time. Some achievements this year included: – Establishing ALTitude, a leadership 
To address the concern that some people 
In all mobile networks, including 5G, con- nected devices communicate with base stations using radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (EMF), also known as radio waves. Since the adoption of mobile telephony in the 1990s there has been some public concern that the radio waves from mobile phones and base sta- tions may cause adverse health effects. Expert groups and public health authorities, including the World Health Organization (WHO, fact sheets 193 and 304), have reviewed the avail- able science and concluded that no health effects are associated with radio wave expo- sure from either mobile phones or radio base stations complying with international limits. Most national authorities have adopted 
 – Absence of scalable sustainable climate solutions in some regions could adversely impact Ericsson’s own activities strategy and target fulfilment.
5) Approximately 62% of transport distances are based on data reported by service logistics providers. For a smaller share, primarily related to the first/last mile of the total distance transported by truck and some additional air transport, estimations have been made based on transported weights and distance to destinations. 
The words “believe”, “expect”, “foresee”, “anticipate”, “assume”, “intend”, “likely”, “projects”, “may”, “could”, “plan”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “will”, “should”, “would”, “predict”, “aim”, “ambition”, “seek”, “potential”, “target”, “might”, “continue”, or, in each case, their negative or variations, and similar words or expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Any statement that refers to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. 
Text på märket:
