The full text of the resolutions proposed for approval by our shareholders is as follows:
The full text of the resolutions proposed for approval by our shareholders is as follows:
Availability of Proxy Materials on the Internet. We are pleased to take advantage of Securities and Exchange Commission rules that allow issuers to furnish proxy materials to some or all of their shareholders on the Internet. Our Constitution was amended last year to align with the provisions under the Singapore Companies Act, Cap. 50, which allow and facilitate the posting of proxy materials on the internet at our designated website. We believe these rules will allow us to provide our shareholders with the information they need, while lowering the costs of delivery and reducing the environmental impact of our annual general meeting of shareholders. On or about July 5, 2017, we will mail to most of our shareholders (including all of our registered shareholders) a Notice of Availability of Proxy Materials on the Internet containing instructions on how to access this proxy statement and our annual report and to submit their proxies via the Internet.
In fiscal year 2017, we continued our multi-year reorganization and rebalancing of our business portfolio in order to align with our customers’ needs and requirements as part of an effort to optimize operating results with a focus on improving profit margins and generating sustainable free cash flow and strong returns on invested capital. We continued to shift our long-term portfolio towards a mix of businesses which possess longer product life cycles and higher margins, such as our IEI and HRS businesses. We also continued to move away from customer solutions that have more short-term volatility and lower margins. This business transformation positions us to meet specific customers’ supply chain solutions needs across all of the markets we serve, yield margin improvement, and earn a return on our invested capital above the weighted-average cost of that capital. We are also improving our ability to take advantage of the long-term, future growth prospects for outsourcing of advanced manufacturing capabilities, design and engineering services, and after-market services. Another aspect of our business transformation strategy has been to make targeted investments in technologies and businesses that are complementary to our core business but that represent high growth opportunities with attractive profit margins. For example, in fiscal year 2017, we made targeted investments in our Flex Innovation Labs, Lab IX portfolio companies, our strategic partnership with Nike, and Elementum business that we believe will yield strong long-term results for Flex. The shift away from certain parts of our business limited our short-term top-line revenue growth and created negative year-over-year comparisons on some financial metrics such as revenue, though it places us in a better position to capitalize on long-term revenue growth and enhanced returns on investment and cash flow.
• We had some less favorable year-over-year financial result comparisons due to our ongoing business transformation, though these actions are positioning the Company for enhanced future results.
Mercer also represented to the Compensation Committee that there are no personal or business relationships between the Mercer account manager and any member of the committee or a named executive officer beyond the Flex relationship. Further, the Mercer account manager does not directly own any Flex shares (although some of his investments controlled solely by independent, third-party managers may own Flex shares by way of indexed funds). Based on the above and other factors, including the factors set forth under Rule 10C-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (referred to in this proxy as the Exchange Act), the committee assessed the independence of Mercer and concluded that no conflict of interest exists that would prevent Mercer from independently representing the committee.
Our Audit Committee has determined that the provision of non-audit services under appropriate circumstances may be compatible with maintaining the independence of Deloitte & Touche LLP, and that all such services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to us in the past were compatible with maintaining such independence. The Audit Committee is sensitive to the concern that some non-audit services, and related fees, could impair independence and the Audit Committee believes it important that independence be maintained. However, the Audit Committee also recognizes that in some areas, services that are identified by the relevant regulations as “tax fees” or “other fees” are sufficiently related to the audit work performed by Deloitte & Touche LLP that it would be highly inefficient and unnecessarily expensive to use a separate firm to perform those non-audit services. The Audit Committee intends to evaluate each such circumstance on its own merits, and to approve the performance of non-audit services where it believes efficiency can be obtained without meaningfully compromising independence.
• We had some less favorable year-over-year financial result comparisons due to our ongoing business transformation, though these actions are positioning the Company for enhanced future results.
Under the Singapore Companies Act, ordinary shares purchased or acquired by us may be held as treasury shares. Some of the provisions on treasury shares under the Singapore Companies Act are summarized below.
In fiscal year 2017, we continued our multi-year reorganization and rebalancing of our business portfolio in order to align with our customers’ needs and requirements as part of an effort to optimize operating results with a focus on improving profit margins and generating sustainable free cash flow and strong returns on invested capital. We continued to shift our long-term portfolio towards a mix of businesses which possess longer product life cycles and higher margins, such as our IEI and HRS businesses. We also continued to move away from customer solutions that have more short-term volatility and lower margins. This business transformation positions us to meet specific customers’ supply chain solutions needs across all of the markets we serve, yield margin improvement, and earn a return on our invested capital above the weighted-average cost of that capital. We are also improving our ability to take advantage of the long-term, future growth prospects for outsourcing of advanced manufacturing capabilities, design and engineering services, and after-market services. Another aspect of our business transformation strategy has been to make targeted investments in technologies and businesses that are complementary to our core business but that represent high growth opportunities with attractive profit margins. For example, in fiscal year 2017, we made targeted investments in our Flex Innovation Labs, Lab IX portfolio companies, our strategic partnership with Nike, and Elementum business that we believe will yield strong long-term results for Flex. The shift away from certain parts of our business limited our short-term top-line revenue growth and created negative year-over-year comparisons on some financial metrics such as revenue, though it places us in a better position to capitalize on long-term revenue growth and enhanced returns on investment and cash flow.
• We had some less favorable year-over-year financial result comparisons due to our ongoing business transformation, though these actions are positioning the Company for enhanced future results.
Total direct compensation is the sum of base salary, annual incentive bonus payouts and long-term incentive awards, but excludes performance-based contributions to our deferred compensation plan. For the table below, the actual total direct compensation represents the actual bonus earned in each fiscal year plus the grant date fair value of the long-term incentive awards provided in each year (where realized long-term incentive values are subject to future performance conditions and share price movement). For fiscal year 2017, the actual total direct compensation for all NEOs is generally up over fiscal 2016. For the CEO, the fiscal year 2017 increase is 14.3%, driven primarily by increases in the target short-and long-term incentive awards as a result of alignment with our target pay strategy and in recognition of his continued leadership contributions and driving the development and execution of our business transformation. For Messrs. Collier, Barbier, and Humphries, the pay was up between 1.9% and 7.2%. These increases reflect the modest salary increases received, as well as some variation in bonus payouts and long-term incentive grant values. This change reflects our alignment of pay and performance, where the fiscal year 2017 financial performance was solid in the context of market conditions, though it fell short of internal expectations.
For fiscal year 2017, the Company’s performance level with respect to the above performance metrics exceeded targeted amounts for some metrics and fell below targeted amounts against others (see table below). The overall corporate business results ended up below our aggressive performance objectives for the year, so payouts were also below target. For Mr. Humphries, performance results included outcomes from the High Reliability Solutions business which he manages, where performance levels exceeded targeted amounts for all metrics and delivered above-target payout levels. The payout levels are as follows:
We own substantially all of the equity in Elementum Holding Ltd (“Holdco”), which in turn is a significant shareholder of Elementum SCM (Cayman) Ltd (“Elementum”), along with other investors not affiliated with us. Elementum is a privately-held software development company founded in 2012 by Flex and some of our former employees to address the enormous challenges facing global supply chains. Elementum develops SaaS-based supply chain management, or SCM, solutions to help companies deal with supply chain complexities through tools designed to control business processes, execute value chain transactions, and manage supplier relationships. Elementum is a separate organization from Flex with approximately 150 employees, though we currently indirectly hold a majority ownership interest. Flex’s CEO, Mike McNamara, is the Chairman of the Board of Elementum, and he and Christopher Collier, Flex’s Chief Financial Officer, and François Barbier, Flex’s President, Global Operations and Components provide active contributions to Elementum. Prior to 2015, Messrs. McNamara, Collier and Barbier had not received any direct financial interest in Elementum or Holdco in connection with their service to Elementum and Holdco. At its founding, we reserved 3.8% of Flex’s interest in Holdco as “profits interests,” which are rights to receive a specified percentage of the appreciation that Flex realizes from its holdings in Holdco.
The “Gross Shares Granted” noted above reflect the number of awards intended to be granted as long- term incentives to be earned over future service and performance periods. Our discussions with shareholders also indicate that some may include the impact of shares released from actual awards earned from prior performance share grants. If this perspective is to be considered, our point of view is that it is also relevant to consider the impact of shares that have been forfeited over time in order to provide a more complete view of overall shareholder dilution rates (e.g., shares granted plus/minus actual performance awards earned minus equity awards forfeited). The table below has been furnished to provide a more complete view of net shares granted/earned in recent years.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides guidance for addressing actual or potential conflicts of interests, including those that may arise from transactions and relationships between us and our executive officers or directors. In addition, in order to formalize our policies and procedures for the review, approval or ratification, and disclosure of related person transactions, our Board of Directors adopted a Statement of Policy with Respect to Related Person Transactions. The policy generally provides that the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (or another committee comprised solely of independent directors) will review, approve in advance or ratify, all related person transactions between us and any director, any nominee for director, any executive officer, any beneficial owners of more than 5% of our ordinary shares or any immediate family member of any of the foregoing individuals. Under the policy, some ordinary course transactions or relationships are not required to be reviewed, approved or ratified by the applicable Board committee, including, among other things, the following transactions:
Some banks, brokers and other nominee record holders may be participating in the practice of “householding” proxy statements and annual reports for our beneficial shareholders. This means that only one copy of our proxy materials and our Annual Report on Form 10-K may have been sent to multiple shareholders in your household, unless your bank, broker or nominee received contrary instructions from one or more shareholders in your household. If you want to receive separate copies of our proxy materials or annual reports in the future, or if you are receiving multiple copies and would like to receive only one copy for your household, you should contact your bank, broker or other nominee record holder. We will promptly deliver a separate copy of either document to you if you request one by writing or calling us at the contact information listed later on this page.
convenience of reference only and, in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or headings, shall control.
COLORS: Black, ~note-color 2   GRAPHICS: Ann Report tab text pgs.eps   V1.5
Except for historical information contained herein, certain matters included in this annual report on Form 10-K are, or may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. The words “will,” “may,” “designed to,” “believe,” “should,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. These forward-looking statements are contained principally under Item 1, “Business,” and under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Because these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual results could differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements include those described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risk factors on our business. Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
outsource some or all of their design, manufacturing, and after-market services requirements. In recent years, we have seen an increased level of diversification by many companies, primarily in the technology sector. Companies that have historically identified themselves as software providers, internet service providers, or e-commerce retailers are entering the highly competitive and rapidly evolving hardware markets, with products including mobile devices, home entertainment and wearable devices. This trend has resulted in significant changes to the hardware manufacturing and supply chain solutions requirements of such companies. Increasingly complex products require highly customized supply chain solutions, in turn resulting in significant changes to the overall manufacturing and supply chain landscape. The growth of the overall industry for calendar year 2016 is estimated to have been around 4%.
interchange allows customers to share demand and product forecasts, deliver purchase orders and assists suppliers with satisfying just-in-time delivery and supplier-managed inventory requirements. This also enables us to implement vendor-managed inventory solutions to increase flexibility and reduce overall capital allocation in the supply chain. We procure a wide assortment of materials, including electronic components, plastics and metals. There are a number of sources for these materials, including customers for whom we are providing systems assembly and manufacturing services. On some occasions, there have been shortages in certain electronic components, most recently with regard to connectors, capacitors, LCD panels and memory (both DRAM and Flash). However, such shortages have not had a material impact on our operating results for any periods presented. See “Risk Factors—We may be adversely affected by shortages of required electronic components.”
the Americas, Asia and Europe, with differentiated offerings and specialized services and focus. Some of these offerings include the most advanced 3D plastic printing, 3D metal printing, surface mount technology (SMT), and X-ray and test equipment to support major industries in bringing innovative products to market rapidly. We also have a reliability and failure analysis lab and an automation applications team. Another key feature is our focus on confidentiality and security as we offer dedicated customer-confidential work spaces that provide increased security and restricted access to protect our customers’ intellectual property (“IP”) and the confidentiality of new products being launched into the marketplace. These innovation centers offer our customers a geographically-focused version of our Sketch-to-Scaletm services, taking their product from concept to volume production and go-to-market in a rapid, cost effective and low risk manner.
Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including laws governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We have implemented processes and procedures to ensure that our operations are in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. We do not believe that costs of compliance with these laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, operating results, or competitive position. In addition, we are responsible for cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing facilities and at some third-party sites. We engage environmental consulting firms to assist us in the evaluation of environmental liabilities associated with our ongoing operations, historical disposal activities and closed sites in order to establish appropriate accruals in our financial statements. We determine the amount of our accruals for environmental matters by analyzing and estimating the probability of occurrence and the reasonable possibility of incurring costs in light of information currently available. The imposition of more stringent standards or requirements under environmental laws or regulations, the results of future testing and analysis undertaken by us at our operating facilities, or a determination that we are potentially responsible for the release of hazardous substances at other sites could result in expenditures in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. Additionally, we could be required to alter our operations in order to comply with any new standards or requirements under environmental laws or regulations. There can be no assurance that additional environmental matters will not arise in the future or that costs will not be incurred with respect to sites as to which no issue is currently known.
Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or locations, or delay production, and our current and potential customers may decide to manufacture some or all of their products internally, which could harm our business.
merits of manufacturing products themselves. Our business would be adversely affected if customers decide to perform these functions internally or transfer their business to another provider. In addition, we face competition from the manufacturing operations of some of our current and potential customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing. In the past, some of our customers moved a portion of their manufacturing from us in order to more fully utilize their excess internal manufacturing capacity. Any of these developments could cause a decline in our sales, loss of market acceptance of our products or services, decreases of our profits or loss of our market share.
We compete with a number of different companies, depending on the type of service we provide or the location of our operations. For example, we compete with major global EMS providers, other smaller EMS companies that have a regional or product-specific focus and ODMs with respect to some of the services that we provide. We also compete with our current and prospective customers, who evaluate our capabilities in light of their own capabilities and cost structures. Our industry is extremely competitive, many of our competitors have achieved substantial market share, and some may have lower cost structures or greater design, manufacturing, financial or other resources than we do. We face particular competition from Asian-based competitors, including Taiwanese ODM suppliers who compete in a variety of our end markets and have a substantial share of global information technology hardware production. If we are unable to provide comparable manufacturing services and improved products at lower cost than the other companies in our market, our net sales could decline.
customers accounted for approximately 43%, 46% and 50% of net sales in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. No customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal year 2017 and only Lenovo/Motorola, which is reflected in our CTG segment, accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal year 2016 and 2015. Our principal customers have varied from year to year. These customers may experience dramatic declines in their market shares or competitive position, due to economic or other forces, that may cause them to reduce their purchases from us or, in some cases, result in the termination of their relationship with us. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, or the loss of major customers, would materially harm our business. If we are not able to timely replace expired, canceled or reduced contracts with new business, our revenues and profitability could be harmed. Additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our key customers generally entail risks to our business. If a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by the largest
We provide manufacturing services to companies and industries that have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial difficulty. If some of our customers experience financial difficulty, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed to us from these customers, or demand for our products from these customers could decline. Additionally, if our suppliers experience financial difficulty we could have difficulty sourcing supplies necessary to fulfill production requirements and meet scheduled shipments. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us on a timely basis, or at all, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Such adverse effects could include one or more of the following: an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, a charge for inventory write- offs, a reduction in revenue, and an increase in our working capital requirements due to higher inventory levels and increases in days our accounts receivable are outstanding. On April 21, 2016, SunEdison, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries (“SunEdison”) filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we recognized a bad debt reserve charge of $61.0 million associated with our outstanding SunEdison receivables and accepted return of previously shipped inventory of approximately $90 million. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2017, prices for solar panel modules declined significantly. We determined that certain solar panel inventory previously designated for SunEdison on hand at the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2017 was not fully recoverable and recorded a charge of $60.0 million to reduce the carrying costs to market during fiscal year 2017. In addition we recognized a $16.0 million impairment charge for solar module equipment and incurred $16.9 million of incremental costs primarily related to negative margin sales and other associated solar panel direct costs. The estimates underlying our recorded provisions, as well as consideration of other potential customer bankruptcy-related contingencies associated with the SunEdison
From time to time, we have experienced shortages of some of the electronic components that we use. These shortages can result from strong demand for those components or from problems experienced by suppliers, such as shortages of raw materials. These unanticipated component shortages could result in curtailed production or delays in production, which may prevent us from making scheduled shipments to customers. Our inability to make scheduled shipments could cause us to experience a reduction in sales, increase in inventory levels and costs, and could adversely affect relationships with existing and prospective customers. Component shortages may also increase our cost of goods sold because we may be required to pay higher prices for components in short supply and redesign or reconfigure products to accommodate substitute components. As a result, component shortages could adversely affect our operating results. Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to incorporate changes in component costs into the selling prices for our products.
Although we enter into contracts with our design services customers, we may design and develop products for these customers prior to receiving a purchase order or other firm commitment from them. We are required to make substantial investments in the resources necessary to design and develop these products, and no revenue may be generated from these efforts if our customers do not approve the designs in a timely manner or at all. Even if our customers accept our designs, if they do not then purchase anticipated levels of products, we may not realize any profits. Our design activities often require that we purchase inventory for initial production runs before we have a purchase commitment from a customer. Even after we have a contract with a customer with respect to a product, these contracts may allow the customer to delay or cancel deliveries and may not obligate the customer to any particular volume of purchases. These contracts can generally be terminated on short notice. In addition, some of the products we design and develop must satisfy safety and regulatory standards and some must receive government certifications. If we fail to obtain these approvals or certifications on a timely basis, we would be unable to sell these products, which would harm our sales, profitability and reputation.
The attractiveness of our services to U.S. customers can be affected by changes in U.S. trade policies, such as most favored nation status and trade preferences for some Asian countries. In addition, some countries in which we operate, such as Brazil, Hungary, India, Mexico, Malaysia and Poland, have experienced periods of slow or negative growth, high inflation, significant currency devaluations or limited availability of foreign exchange. Furthermore, in countries such as China, Brazil and Mexico, governmental authorities exercise significant influence over many aspects of the economy, and their actions could have a significant effect on us. We could be seriously harmed by inadequate infrastructure, including lack of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials and parts in countries in which we operate. In addition, we may encounter labor disruptions and rising labor costs, in particular within the lower-cost regions in which we operate. Any increase in labor costs that we are unable to recover in our pricing to our customers could adversely impact our operating results.
inflation and repatriation of earnings. In some countries, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert our cash distributions to U.S. dollars or other freely convertible currencies, or to move funds from our accounts in these countries. Furthermore, the central bank of any of these countries may
We regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet or to introduce malicious software to our information systems. We are also a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees, and customers; or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. We believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. In some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. We have implemented security systems with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and inventory and protecting our customers’ and our suppliers’ confidential information. In addition, while we seek to detect and investigate all unauthorized attempts and attacks against our network, products, and services, and to prevent their recurrence where practicable through changes to our internal processes and tools, we are subject to, and at times have suffered from, breach of these security systems which have in the past and may in the future result in unauthorized access to our facilities and/or unauthorized use or theft of the inventory or information we are trying to protect. If unauthorized parties gain physical access to our inventory or if they gain electronic access to our information systems or if such information or inventory is used in an unauthorized manner, misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission or transport, any theft or misuse of such information or inventory could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties including our customers and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information or inventory, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow.
The expansion of our business, as well as business contractions and other changes in our customers’ requirements, have in the past, and may in the future, require that we adjust our business and cost structures by incurring restructuring charges. Restructuring activities involve reductions in our workforce at some locations and closure of certain facilities. All of these changes have in the past placed, and may in the future place, considerable strain on our financial and management control systems and resources, including decision support, accounting management, information systems and facilities. If we do not properly manage our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to manage our employees, our business could be harmed.
We retain certain intellectual property rights to some of the technologies that we develop as part of our
If we design, engineer or manufacture a product or component that is found to cause any personal injury or property damage or is otherwise found to be defective, we could spend a significant amount of money to resolve the claim. In addition, product liability and product recall insurance coverage are expensive and may not be available for some or all of our services offerings on acceptable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product liability or product warranty claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied, limited or is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, we are responsible for the cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing facilities and at some third party sites. If more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or regulations are imposed, or the results of future testing and analyses at our current or former operating facilities indicate that we are responsible for the release of hazardous substances into the air, ground and/or water, we may be subject to additional liability. Additional environmental matters may arise in the future at sites where no problem is currently known or at sites that we may acquire in the future. Additionally, we could be required to alter our manufacturing and operations and incur substantial expense in order to comply with environmental regulations. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations or adequately address contaminated sites could limit our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to incur significant expenses, which would harm our business.
are currently rated BBB- by Standard and Poor’s (“S&P”) which is considered to be “investment grade” by S&P, rated Baa3 by Moody’s which is considered to be “investment grade” by Moody’s, and rated BBB- by Fitch which is considered to be “investment grade” by Fitch. Any decline in our credit rating may make it more expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares, increase our interest payments under some of our existing debt agreements, and have other negative implications on our business, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the interest rate payable on some of our credit facilities is subject to adjustment from time to time if our credit ratings change. Thus, any potential future negative change in our credit rating may increase the interest rate payable on these credit facilities.
cyber security incidents, interruptions of service from utilities, transportation or telecommunications providers, or other catastrophic events. Such events could make it difficult or impossible to manufacture or deliver products to our customers, receive production materials from our suppliers, or perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our revenue and require significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, some of our systems are not fully redundant and we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disruptions.
We rely on a variety of common carriers to transport our materials from our suppliers to us, and to transport our products from us to our customers. Problems suffered by any of these common carriers, whether due to a natural disaster, labor problem, increased energy prices, criminal activity or some other issue, could result in shipping delays, increased costs, or other supply chain disruptions, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our operations.
This report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The words “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “intends,” “plans” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements which refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those discussed in this section and in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” In addition, new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risk factors on our business. Accordingly, our future results may differ materially from historical results or from those discussed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward- looking statements.
the technology sector. Some companies that have historically identified themselves as software providers, Internet service providers or e-commerce retailers have entered the highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology hardware markets, such as mobile devices, home entertainment and wearable devices. This trend has resulted in a significant change in the manufacturing and supply chain solutions requirements of such companies. While the products have become more complex, the supply chain solutions required by such companies have become more customized and demanding, and it has changed the manufacturing and supply chain landscape significantly.
During the past few years, we have made significant efforts to evolve our long-term portfolio towards a higher mix of businesses which possess longer product life cycles and higher segment operating margins such as reflected in our IEI and HRS businesses. During the last two fiscal years, we launched several programs broadly across our portfolio of services and in some instances we deployed certain new technologies. Some of these programs have started to yield better results, as demonstrated by our segment operating margin improvement while our sales decreased compared to the prior year. We continue to invest in innovation and we have expanded our design and engineering relationships through our product innovation centers.
and risk of ownership have passed, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and recoverability is reasonably assured. Generally, there are no formal substantive customer acceptance requirements or further obligations related to manufacturing services. If such requirements or obligations exist, then we recognize the related revenues at the time when such requirements are completed and the obligations are fulfilled. Some of our customer contracts allow us to recover certain costs related to manufacturing services that are over and above the prices we charge for the related products. We determine the amount of costs that are recoverable based on historical experiences and agreements with those customers. Also, certain customer contracts may contain certain commitments and obligations that may result in additional expenses or decrease in revenue. We accrue for these commitments and obligations based on facts and circumstances and contractual terms. We also make provisions for estimated sales returns and other adjustments at the time revenue is recognized based upon
Liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of the business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances; however, any current restrictions are not material. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout the global organization. We believe that our existing cash balances, together with anticipated cash flows from operations and borrowings available under our credit facilities, will be sufficient to fund our operations through at least the next twelve months.
customer, title and risk of ownership have passed, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and recoverability is reasonably assured. Generally, there are no formal substantive customer acceptance requirements or further obligations related to manufacturing services. If such requirements or obligations exist, then the Company recognizes the related revenues at the time when such requirements are completed and the obligations are fulfilled. Some of the Company’s customer contracts allow the recovery of certain costs related to manufacturing services that are over and above the prices charged for the related products. The Company determines the amount of costs that are recoverable based on historical experiences and agreements with those customers. Also, certain customer contracts may contain certain commitments and obligations that may result in additional expenses or decrease in revenue. The Company accrues for these commitments and obligations based on facts and circumstances and contractual terms. The Company also makes provisions for estimated sales returns and other adjustments at the time revenue is recognized based upon contractual terms and an analysis of historical returns. Provisions for sales returns and other adjustments were not material to the consolidated financial statements for any of the periods presented.
In August 2016, the FASB issued new guidance intended to address specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with early application permitted. The new guidance allows for two transition methods in application—(i) retrospective to each period presented, or (ii) if it is impracticable to apply the amendments retrospectively for some of the issues, then the amendments for those issues would be applied prospective as of the earliest date practicable. The Company expects an immaterial impact on its consolidated financial statements. The Company is currently assessing the timing of adoption.
At any time prior to maturity, the Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed, plus an applicable premium accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the applicable redemption date. Upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event (as defined in the Notes indenture), the Company must offer to repurchase the Notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the applicable repurchase date.
At any time prior to March 15, 2025, the Company may redeem some or all of the 2025 Notes at a
reasonable assurance and may not prevent or detect misstatements or prevent or detect instances of fraud. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls may be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report, including the letter to our shareholders, may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “will,” “may,” “designed to,” “believe,” “should,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. While the company may elect to update forward-looking statements in the future, it specifically disclaims its obligation to do so, even if the company’s estimates change. A number of factors could cause the results of the company to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including those detailed under the headings “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7, in the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
