We are still in the midst of a global crisis, but we have, and we will continue to work through this difficult time. Many of the products we make are essential, some directly contributing to combatting the effects of the disease and saving lives. Through this pandemic we demonstrated the true agility of which we are capable. In a matter of weeks not months, we initiated and ramped multiple ventilator programs for our customers—a monumental task, but we did not stop there. Our customers turned to us to quickly ramp up production of new, and highly accurate virus and antibody testing equipment, and we rapidly increased production of other critical care products such as ventilators, personal protective equipment, oxygen concentrators, infusion pumps, and ICU beds to meet the growing demand. Flex is also contributing indirectly by supporting our customers producing the cloud, compute and networking infrastructure as well as other products that support critical communications applications and the work-from-home movement. 
This last year has seen a number of transformations across the global landscape. Although many started before the COVID-19 pandemic, some will likely accelerate as a result. 
The full text of the resolutions proposed for approval by our shareholders is as follows:
The full text of the resolutions proposed for approval by our shareholders is as follows:
Flex strives for excellence in corporate governance practices, which we recognize is fundamental to maintaining the trust of our shareholders, customers, and employees. Flex’s management, together with our Board of Directors, continually evaluate processes and implement procedures designed to maintain strong governance and operational standards. Below are some highlights of our corporate governance practices.
We strive to make a lasting positive impact for our employees, customers and investors and aim to follow social and environmental practices that make our stakeholders proud to work with or invest in us. Our sustainability efforts have been widely recognized garnering awards for sustainability and supply chain leadership from the Manufacturing Leadership Council; inclusion in the FTSE4GOOD index for the fourth consecutive year; a negligible risk score from Sustainalytics; and an Industry Mover Sustainability Award from the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Below are some highlights of our sustainability practices.
As part of our strategic planning process in 2019, we updated our vision and mission statements to align to our strategy as well as reflect our aspirations for all of our major stakeholders. We also developed a purpose statement for the first time at our company to provide clarity and a framework for why we exist and what kind of company we want to be. Culture underlies our stakeholder experience. It aligns us as we pursue our purpose, uphold our mission, live our values, advance towards our vision and activate our strategy. These statements are more than words on a poster, they will provide a framework for how we make decisions and will influence the company culture we wish to create. Our new values are intended to reflect and guide our behaviors and shape our culture going forward.
Our commitment to sustainability has earned us positive feedback from shareholders and recognition from some of the most prestigious sustainability ratings agencies.
Our Audit Committee has determined that the provision of non-audit services under appropriate circumstances may be compatible with maintaining the independence of Deloitte & Touche LLP, and that all such services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to us in the past were compatible with maintaining such independence. The Audit Committee is sensitive to the concern that some non-audit services, and related fees, could impair independence and the Audit Committee believes it important that independence be maintained. However, the Audit Committee also recognizes that in some areas, services that are identified 
Under the Singapore Companies Act, Ordinary Shares purchased or acquired by us may be held as treasury shares. Some of the provisions on treasury shares under the Singapore Companies Act are summarized below.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides guidance for addressing actual or potential conflicts of interests, including those that may arise from transactions and relationships between us and our executive officers or directors. In addition, in order to formalize our policies and procedures for the review, approval or ratification, and disclosure of related-person transactions, our Board of Directors adopted a Statement of Policy with Respect to Related-Person Transactions. The policy generally provides that the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (or another committee comprised solely of independent directors) will review, approve in advance or ratify, all related-person transactions between us and any director, any nominee for director, any executive officer, any beneficial owners of more than 5% of our Ordinary Shares or any immediate family member of any of the foregoing individuals. Under the policy, some ordinary course transactions or relationships are not required to be reviewed, approved or ratified by the applicable Board committee, including, among other things, the following transactions:
Some banks, brokers and other nominee record holders may be participating in the practice of “householding” proxy statements and annual reports for our beneficial shareholders. This means that only one copy of our proxy materials and our Annual Report on Form 10-K may have been sent to multiple shareholders in your household, unless your bank, broker or nominee received contrary instructions from one or more shareholders in your household. If you want to receive separate copies of our proxy materials or annual reports in the future, or if you are receiving multiple copies and would like to receive only one copy for your household, you should contact your bank, broker or other nominee record holder. We will promptly deliver a separate copy of either document to you if you request one by writing or calling us at the contact information listed later on this page.
Except for historical information contained herein, certain matters included in this proxy statement are, or may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. The words “will,” “may,” “designed to,” “believe,” “should,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this proxy statement. Because these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual results could differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements Additional information concerning these and other risks is described under “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q that we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risk factors on our business. Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward- looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Wherever the following terms are used in the Plan they shall have the meanings specified below, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, words in the masculine gender when used in the Plan shall include the feminine gender, the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.
the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or headings, shall control.
In establishing a compensation approach for our new CEO, we considered the following: (i) external market data for peer group CEOs, with relatively conservative initial pay positioning for first time CEOs; (ii) Flex’s competitive position as a “turn-around” opportunity with some risk; and (iii) Ms. Advaithi’s compensation package, including unvested and unpaid elements, in her  then-current role as president and chief operating officer for the Eaton’s Electrical Sector.
and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. The words "will," "may," "designed to," "believe," "should," "anticipate," 
Except for historical information contained herein, certain matters included in this annual report on Form 10-K are, or may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. The words "will," "may," "designed to," "believe," "should," "anticipate," "plan," "expect," "intend," "estimate" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. These forward-looking statements are contained principally under Item 1, "Business," and under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Because these forward- looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual results could differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements include those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." In addition, new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risk factors on our business. Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
• Materials Procurement and Inventory Management. Our manufacturing and assembly operations capitalize on our materials inventory management expertise and volume procurement capabilities. As a result, we believe that we are able to achieve highly competitive cost reductions and shorten total manufacturing cycle times for our customers. Materials procurement and management consists of the planning, purchasing, expediting, and warehousing of components and materials used in the manufacturing process. In addition, our strategy includes having third-party suppliers of custom components located in our industrial parks to reduce material and transportation costs, simplify logistics, and facilitate inventory management. We also use a sophisticated automated manufacturing resource planning system and enhanced electronic data interchange capabilities to ensure inventory control and optimization. Electronic data interchange allows customers to share demand and product forecasts, deliver purchase orders and assists suppliers with satisfying just-in-time delivery and supplier-managed inventory requirements. There are a number of sources for these materials, including customers for whom we are providing systems assembly and manufacturing services. On some occasions, there have been shortages of certain electronic components, most recently for connectors, capacitors, LCD panels and memory (both DRAM and Flash). As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced component shortages and other supply chain constraints in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2020, and such component shortages and supply chain constraints have continued to a lesser extent in the first quarter of our fiscal year 2021. See "Risk Factors—We may be adversely affected by supply chain issues, including shortages of required electronic components."
including customers for whom we are providing systems assembly and manufacturing services. On some 
support the inclusion of all people in our working environment. Some of the cornerstone specific goals through which we 
position. In addition, we are responsible for cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing 
facilities and at some third-party sites. We engage environmental consulting firms to assist us in the evaluation of 
advance human rights around the world. Our foremost focus in our response to the COVID-19 pandemic has been the health and safety of our employees. Our philosophy, strategies, and policies in human rights, health and safety, diversity and inclusion, support the inclusion of all people in our working environment. Some of the cornerstone specific goals through which we measure our performance include increasing employee development, social and environmental management system audits, human rights policy training completion, RBA compliance for rest day requirements and decreasing incident rates.
Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including laws governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We have implemented processes and procedures to ensure that our operations are in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. We do not believe that costs of compliance with these laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, operating results, or competitive position. In addition, we are responsible for cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing facilities and at some third-party sites. We engage environmental consulting firms to assist us in the evaluation of environmental liabilities associated with our ongoing operations, historical disposal activities and closed sites in order to establish appropriate accruals in our financial statements. We determine the amount of our accruals for environmental matters by analyzing and estimating the probability of occurrence and the reasonable possibility of incurring costs in light of information currently available. 
Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or locations, or delay production, and our current and potential customers may decide to manufacture some or all of their products internally, which could harm our business.
future harm, our results of operations by reducing the volumes of products we manufacture and deliver for those customers, by causing a delay in the repayment of our expenditures for inventory in preparation for customer orders and/or an impairment loss for inventory, and by lowering our asset utilization and overhead absorption resulting in lower gross margins and earnings. Additionally, current and prospective customers continuously evaluate our capabilities against other providers as well as against the merits of manufacturing products themselves. Our business would be adversely affected if customers decide to perform these functions internally or transfer their business to another provider. In addition, we face competition from the manufacturing operations of some of our current and potential customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing. In the past, some of our customers moved a portion of their manufacturing from us in order to more fully utilize their excess internal manufacturing capacity. Any of these developments could cause a decline in our sales, loss of market acceptance of our products or services, decreases of our profits or loss of our market share.
operations. For example, we compete with major global EMS providers, other smaller EMS companies that have a regional or product-specific focus and ODMs with respect to some of the services that we provide. We also compete with our current and prospective customers, who evaluate our capabilities in light of their own capabilities and cost structures. Our industry is extremely competitive, many of our competitors have achieved substantial market share, and some may have lower cost structures or greater design, manufacturing, financial or other resources than we do. We face particular competition from Asian- based competitors, including Taiwanese ODM suppliers who compete in a variety of our end markets and have a substantial share of global information technology hardware production. If we are unable to provide comparable manufacturing services and improved products at lower cost than the other companies in our market, our net sales could decline.
for approximately 39%, 43% and 41% of net sales in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. No customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal year 2020, 2019 and 2018. Our principal customers have varied from year to year. These customers may experience dramatic declines in their market shares or competitive position, due to economic or other forces, that may cause them to reduce their purchases from us or, in some cases, result in the termination of their relationship with us. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, or the loss of major customers, would materially harm our business. If we are not able to timely replace expired, canceled or reduced contracts with new business, our revenues and profitability could be harmed. Additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our key customers generally entail risks to our business. If a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in 
financial difficulty. If some of our customers experience financial difficulty, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed 
From time to time, we have experienced shortages of some of the electronic components that we use. These shortages can 
potential customers may decide to manufacture some or all of their products internally, which could harm our business.
manufacturing operations of some of our current and potential customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of 
manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing. In the past, some of our customers moved a portion of 
product-specific focus and ODMs with respect to some of the services that we provide. We also compete with our current and 
extremely competitive, many of our competitors have achieved substantial market share, and some may have lower cost 
forces, that may cause them to reduce their purchases from us or, in some cases, result in the termination of their relationship 
financial difficulty. If some of our customers experience financial difficulty, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed to us from these customers, or demand for our products from these customers could decline. Additionally, if our suppliers experience financial difficulty we could have difficulty sourcing supplies necessary to fulfill production requirements and meet scheduled shipments. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us on a timely basis, or at all, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Such adverse effects could include one or more of the following: an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, a charge for inventory write-offs, a reduction in revenue, and an increase in our working capital requirements due to higher inventory levels and increases in days our accounts receivables are outstanding. Any of these risks may be heightened by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
From time to time, we have experienced shortages of some of the electronic components that we use. These shortages can 
customers prior to receiving a purchase order or other firm commitment from them. We are required to make substantial investments in the resources necessary to design and develop these products, and no revenue may be generated from these efforts if our customers do not approve the designs in a timely manner or at all. In addition, we may make investments in designing products and not be able to design viable manufacturable products, in which cases we may not be able to recover our investments. Even if we are successful in designing manufacturable products and our customers accept our designs, if our customers do not then purchase anticipated levels of products, we may not realize any profits. Our design activities often require that we purchase inventory for initial production runs before we have a purchase commitment from a customer. Even after we have a contract with a customer with respect to a product, these contracts may allow the customer to delay or cancel deliveries and may not obligate the customer to any particular volume of purchases. These contracts can generally be terminated on short notice. In addition, some of the products we design and develop must satisfy safety and regulatory standards and some must receive government certifications. If we fail to obtain these approvals or certifications on a timely basis, we would be unable to sell these products, which would harm our sales, profitability and reputation.
terminated on short notice. In addition, some of the products we design and develop must satisfy safety and regulatory 
standards and some must receive government certifications. If we fail to obtain these approvals or certifications on a timely 
implementation and other regulatory actions could materially affect our business, including in the form of increased cost of goods sold, decreased margins, increased pricing for customers, and reduced sales. Further, one of our former customers, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., and some of its affiliates have been added to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Entity List, and were recently made subject to enhanced restrictions designed to prevent them from having access to foreign-produced items using U.S.-origin semiconductor technology and equipment; we could be subject to reputational harm based on its business activities, including activities with sanctioned countries. 
In addition, some countries in which we operate, such as Brazil, Hungary, India, Mexico, Malaysia and Poland, have experienced periods of slow or negative growth, high inflation, significant currency devaluations or limited availability of foreign exchange. Furthermore, in countries such as China, Brazil, India and Mexico, governmental authorities exercise significant influence over many aspects of the economy, and their actions could have a significant effect on us. We could be seriously harmed by inadequate infrastructure, including lack of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials and parts in countries in which we operate. In addition, we may encounter labor disruptions and rising labor costs, in particular within the lower-cost regions in which we operate. Any increase in labor costs that we are unable to recover in our pricing to our customers could adversely impact our operating results.
Operations in foreign countries also present risks associated with currency exchange and convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings. In some countries, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert our cash distributions to U.S. dollars or other freely convertible currencies, or to move funds from our accounts in these countries. Furthermore, the central bank of any of these countries may have the authority to suspend, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on foreign exchange transactions or to approve distributions to foreign investors.
We retain certain intellectual property rights to some of the technologies that we develop as part of our engineering, design and manufacturing services and components offerings. The measures we have taken to prevent unauthorized use of our technology may not be successful. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, this could reduce or eliminate the competitive advantages of our proprietary technology, which would harm our business.
Restructuring activities involve reductions in our workforce at some locations and closure of certain facilities. All of these 
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., and some of its affiliates have been added to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Entity List, 
In addition, some countries in which we operate, such as Brazil, Hungary, India, Mexico, Malaysia and Poland, have 
repatriation of earnings. In some countries, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect our ability to 
We retain certain intellectual property rights to some of the technologies that we develop as part of our engineering, 
the past, and may in the future, require that we adjust our business and cost structures by incurring restructuring charges. Restructuring activities involve reductions in our workforce at some locations and closure of certain facilities. All of these changes have in the past placed, and may in the future place, considerable strain on our financial and management control systems and resources, including decision support, accounting management, information systems and facilities. If we do not properly manage our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to manage our employees, our business could be harmed.
sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers, and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. In particular, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused us to modify our business practices, including requiring many of our office-based employees to work from home. As a result, we are increasingly dependent upon our information systems to operate our business and our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and adequacy of our such information systems. We regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet or to introduce malicious software to our information systems. We are also a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees, and customers; or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. We believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. In some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. We have implemented security systems with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and inventory and protecting our customers’ and our suppliers’ confidential information. In addition, while we seek to detect and investigate all unauthorized attempts and attacks against our network, products, and services, and to prevent their recurrence where practicable through changes to our internal processes and tools, we are subject to, and at times have suffered from, breach of these security systems which have in the past and may in the future result in unauthorized access to our facilities and/or unauthorized use or theft of the inventory or information we are trying to protect. If unauthorized parties gain physical access to our inventory or if they gain electronic access to our information systems or if such information or inventory is used in an unauthorized manner, misdirected, or lost or stolen during transmission or transport, any theft or misuse of such information or inventory could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties including our customers and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information or inventory, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. 
and in technical sophistication. In some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services might be 
product liability and product recall insurance coverage are expensive and may not be available for some or all of our services 
If we design, engineer or manufacture a product or component that is found to cause any personal injury or property damage or is otherwise found to be defective, we could spend a significant amount of money to resolve the claim. In addition, product liability and product recall insurance coverage are expensive and may not be available for some or all of our services offerings on acceptable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product liability or product warranty claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied, limited or is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, we are responsible for the cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing 
facilities and at some third party sites. If more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or regulations are imposed, or the results of future testing and analyses at our current or former operating facilities indicate that we are responsible for the release of hazardous substances into the air, ground and/or water, we may be subject to additional liability. Additional environmental matters may arise in the future at sites where no problem is currently known or at sites that we may acquire in the future. Additionally, we could be required to alter our manufacturing and operations and incur substantial expense in order to comply with environmental regulations. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations or adequately address contaminated sites could limit our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to incur significant expenses, which would harm our business.
negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares, increase our interest payments under some of our existing debt agreements, 
payable on some of our credit facilities is subject to adjustment from time to time if our credit ratings change. Thus, any 
In addition, we are responsible for the cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing 
facilities and at some third party sites. If more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or 
due 2029, our 4.875% Notes due 2030 and our 3.750% Notes due 2026 are currently rated BBB- by Standard and Poor's ("S&P") which is considered to be “investment grade” by S&P, rated Baa3 by Moody’s which is considered to be “investment grade” by Moody's, and rated BBB- by Fitch which is considered to be "investment grade" by Fitch. Any decline in our credit rating may make it more expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares, increase our interest payments under some of our existing debt agreements, and have other negative implications on our business, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the interest rate payable on some of our credit facilities is subject to adjustment from time to time if our credit ratings change. Thus, any potential future negative change in our credit rating may increase the interest rate payable on these credit facilities.
Our operations or systems could be disrupted by natural disasters, terrorist activity, public health issues (including the COVID-19 pandemic), cyber security incidents, interruptions of service from utilities, transportation or telecommunications providers, or other catastrophic events. Such events could make it difficult or impossible to manufacture or deliver products to our customers, receive production materials from our suppliers, or perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our revenue and require significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, some of our systems are not fully redundant and we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disruptions.
from us to our customers. Problems suffered by any of these common carriers, whether due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a natural disaster, labor problem, increased energy prices, criminal activity or some other issue, could result in shipping delays, increased costs, or other supply chain disruptions, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our operations. 
portfolio. We focused on streamlining our investment portfolio and disposed of some of our investments and recognized certain 
plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, some 
natural disaster, labor problem, increased energy prices, criminal activity or some other issue, could result in shipping delays, 
investments in private funds and companies to further our strategic objectives, support key business initiatives, and develop business relationships with related portfolio companies. Many of the instruments in which we invest are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. During the last half of fiscal year 2019, we reassessed our strategy with respect to our investment portfolio. We focused on streamlining our investment portfolio and disposed of some of our investments and recognized certain charges. If any of the funds or companies in which we invest fail, we could lose all or part of our investment. From time-to- time we have identified observable price changes, or impairments in investments, and we have written down certain investments fair values and recognized a loss.
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The words "expects," 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The words "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "plans" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements which refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward- looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those discussed in this section and in Item 1A, "Risk Factors." In addition, new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risk factors on our business. Accordingly, our future results may differ materially from historical results or from those discussed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Over the past few years, we have seen an increased level of diversification by many companies, primarily in the technology sector. Some companies that have historically identified themselves as software providers, Internet service providers or e-commerce retailers have entered the highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology hardware markets, such as mobile devices, home entertainment and wearable devices. This trend has resulted in a significant change in the manufacturing and supply chain solutions requirements of such companies. While the products have become more complex, the supply chain solutions required by such companies have become more customized and demanding, and it has changed the manufacturing and supply chain landscape significantly.
technology sector. Some companies that have historically identified themselves as software providers, Internet service 
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., and some of its affiliates have been added to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Entity List, 
our fiscal year as multiple factories shut down late in the fourth quarter. This decline in our HRS segment was offset to some 
by changes in U.S. and other countries' trade policies. In 2018, the U.S. imposed tariffs on a large variety of products of Chinese origin. The U.S. government has also indicated a readiness to further expand the scope of the tariffs on Chinese goods if negotiations are not successful, and most recently, effective May 10, 2019, increased tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods to 25%. Further, on May 15, 2019, President Trump issued an executive order designed to secure the information and communications technology and services supply chain, which would restrict the acquisition or use in the United States of information and communications technology or services designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of foreign adversaries. The executive order is subject to implementation by the Secretary of Commerce and applies to contracts entered into prior to the effective date of the order. In addition, the U.S. Commerce Department has implemented additional restrictions and may implement further restrictions that would affect conducting business with certain Chinese companies. A “phase one” trade deal signed between the U.S. and China on January 15, 2020 accompanied a U.S. decision to cancel a plan to increase tariffs on an additional list of Chinese products and to reduce the tariffs imposed on May 13, 2019 from 15% to 7.5% effective February 14, 2020. While the signing of the agreement and granting of several tariff exclusions by the U.S. Trade Representative signal a cooling of tensions between the U.S. and China over trade, many of the additional tariffs on Chinese origin goods remain as do concerns over the stability of bilateral trade relations, particularly given the limited scope of the phase one agreement. In addition, the economic disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic could make it harder for China to meet its obligations under the deal and increases the potential for China to invoke the deal’s “disaster clause,” which could further challenge US-China bilateral trade relations. Depending upon their duration and implementation, as well as our ability to mitigate their impact, these tariffs, the executive order and its implementation and other regulatory actions could materially affect our business, including in the form of increased cost of goods sold, decreased margins, increased pricing for customers, and reduced sales. Further, one of our former customers, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., and some of its affiliates have been added to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Entity List, and were recently made subject to enhanced restrictions designed to prevent them from having access to foreign-produced items using U.S.-origin semiconductor technology and equipment; we could be subject to reputational harm based on its business activities, including activities with sanctioned countries.
Net sales for fiscal year 2020 decreased 8%, or $2.0 billion, to $24.2 billion from the prior year. With the exception of our IEI segment whose net sales increased $1.1 billion, net sales for all of our remaining segments declined from the previous year. Our CTG segment decreased $1.7 billion, primarily resulting from our targeted reductions of high volatility, low margin, short- cycle customers and product categories, in addition to significant COVID-19 related supply chain constraints in our fourth quarter. Our CEC segment decreased $1.4 billion, driven by reduced demand in our networking and telecommunication businesses due to the slower roll-out of 5G technology, in addition to our previously announced disengagement with Huawei Technologies Co., coupled with production disruptions in our fourth quarter due to COVID-19. Our HRS segment modestly declined $87 million driven primarily by COVID-19 disruptions directly impacting our automotive business towards the end of our fiscal year as multiple factories shut down late in the fourth quarter. This decline in our HRS segment was offset to some extent by the growth we saw in the earlier part of the fiscal year as we ramped new programs. Our IEI segment increased $1.1 
carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. Recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level by comparing the reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit, which is measured based upon, among other factors, market multiples for comparable companies as well as a discounted cash flow analysis. These approaches use significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy and require us to make various judgmental assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates which consider our budgets, business plans and economic projections, and are believed to reflect market participant views. Some of the inherent estimates 
business plans and economic projections, and are believed to reflect market participant views. Some of the inherent estimates 
the fourth quarter. This decline was offset to some extent by the growth we saw in the earlier part of the fiscal year from 
by declines in our data networking business due to weakness with some legacy product lines. Net sales in our IEI 
and gross margin declines were due to revenue reductions in some of our higher margin businesses, such as automotive and 
disruptions directly impacting our automotive business towards the end of our fiscal year as multiple factories shut down late in the fourth quarter. This decline was offset to some extent by the growth we saw in the earlier part of the fiscal year from ramping programs. Our IEI segment increased by $1.1 billion, or 18%, mainly driven by strong sales within our solar energy business and our home and lifestyle business throughout the year which more than offset the underlying supply chain disruptions due to COVID-19 that impacted product ramps for various industrial and home and lifestyle businesses in our fourth quarter.
and data center business as well as the expansion of network infrastructure programs to support 4G and 5G technology, offset by declines in our data networking business due to weakness with some legacy product lines. Net sales in our IEI segment increased $0.2 billion or 4%, which was mainly driven by new programs and customer launches within our industrial, home and lifestyle businesses, offset by declines in our capital equipment and energy businesses. Net sales in our HRS segment increased $59 million, or 1%, from higher sales in our health solutions business as we benefited from prior year investments in design, engineering and automation that have strengthened and improved our capabilities and competitive positioning that more than offset year over year declines from our automotive customers primarily in Asia. These segment increases were partially offset by a decrease of $107 million, or 1.5%, in our CTG segment, primarily within the legacy consumer sectors of the segment and as a result of actively repositioning the portfolio of customers and rationalizing underperforming customers and eliminating certain product categories.
Gross profit decreased $0.1 billion to $1.5 billion from $1.6 billion from fiscal year 2018 to fiscal year 2019. Gross margin decreased 40 basis points, to 5.8% of net sales in fiscal year 2019, from 6.2% of net sales in fiscal year 2018. The decrease is primarily due to an additional $32 million, or 10 basis points, of restructuring charges coupled with approximately $47 million of additional charges related to distressed customers incurred during fiscal year 2019 versus fiscal year 2018. During the year, we completed the wind down of our NIKE Mexico operations and incurred a total of $66 million of charges primarily for non-cash asset impairments in the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2019. Additional gross profit and gross margin declines were due to revenue reductions in some of our higher margin businesses, such as automotive and semi-cap equipment and further due to the Multek China divestiture. Also negatively pressuring the gross profit margin was the significant revenues from ramping new programs in India.
Our cash balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world. Liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of the business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances; however, any current restrictions are not material. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout the global organization. We believe that our existing cash balances, together with anticipated cash flows from operations and borrowings available under our credit facilities, will be sufficient to fund our operations through at least the next twelve months.
factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of the business and some of which arise from fluctuations 
carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. Recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level by comparing the reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit, which typically is measured based upon, among other factors, market multiples for comparable companies as well as a discounted cash flow analysis. These approaches use significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy and require management to make various judgmental assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates which consider its budgets, business plans and economic projections, and are believed to reflect market participant views. Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value of the reporting units are outside the control of management, including interest rates, cost of capital, tax rates, market EBITDA comparable and credit ratings. While the Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If the actual results are not consistent with management's estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, it could result in material impairments of the Company's goodwill. 
which consider its budgets, business plans and economic projections, and are believed to reflect market participant views. Some 
and discounted cash flow projections. Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value of the 
as required whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired. The factors the Company considers in its evaluation of potential impairment of its investments include, but are not limited to, a significant deterioration in the earnings performance or business prospects of the investee, or factors that raise significant concerns about the investee’s ability to continue as a going concern, such as negative cash flows from operation or working capital deficiencies. Fair values of these investments, when required, are estimated using unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy, and require management to make various judgmental assumptions about primarily comparable company multiples and discounted cash flow projections. Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value of the investments are outside the control of management. While the Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the investments, it is possible a material change could occur. If the actual results are not consistent with management's estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, it could result in material impairments of investments.
At any time prior to maturity, the Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of 
At any time prior to maturity, the Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed, plus an applicable premium accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the applicable redemption date. Upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event (as defined in the Notes indenture), the Company must offer to repurchase the Notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the applicable repurchase date. During fiscal year 2020, the Company tendered and redeemed the total outstanding balance under the Notes due February 15, 2020 with parts of the proceeds obtained from the new JPY 33.525 billion term loan due April 2024 and the new $650 million of 4.875% Notes due June 15, 2029. As the transaction was determined to fall under extinguishment accounting, the Company recognized an immaterial loss on extinguishment during its fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, which was recorded in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations.
At any time prior to March 15, 2025, the Company may redeem some or all of the 2025 Notes at a redemption price equal 
At any time prior to March 15, 2025, the Company may redeem some or all of the 2025 Notes at a redemption price equal 
owed are audited by licensors and may be challenged. Some of these disagreements, may lead to claims and litigation that 
From time to time, the Company enters into IP licenses (e.g., patent licenses and software licenses) with third-parties which obligate the Company to report covered behavior to the licensor and pay license fees to the licensor for certain activities or products, or that enable the Company's use of third-party technologies. The Company may also decline to enter into licenses for intellectual property that it does not think is useful for or used in its operations, or for which its customers or suppliers have licenses or have assumed responsibility. Given the diverse and varied nature of its business and the location of its business around the world, certain activities the Company performs, such as providing assembly services in China and India, may fall outside the scope of those licenses or may not be subject to the applicable intellectual property rights. The Company's licensors may disagree and claim royalties are owed for such activities. In addition, the basis (e.g., base price) for any royalty amounts owed are audited by licensors and may be challenged. Some of these disagreements, may lead to claims and litigation that might not be resolved in the Company's favor. Additionally, litigation could be lengthy and costly and could materially harm the Company's financial condition regardless of the outcome. In March 2018, the Company received an inquiry from a licensor referencing its patent license agreement with the Company, and requesting information relating to royalties for products that the Company assembles for a customer in China. The Company and licensor have had subsequent discussions, during which the licensor claimed that the Company owes a material amount under the patent license agreement, which the Company disputes and would contest vigorously. While the Company cannot predict the outcome with respect to this claim or estimate an amount or reasonable range of loss, a material loss is reasonably possible.
term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Internal control over financial reporting consists of policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) are designed and operated to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the Company's financial reporting and the Company's process for the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, a system of internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance and may not prevent or detect misstatements or prevent or detect instances of fraud. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls may be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for historical information contained herein, certain matters included in this annual report on Form 10-K are, or may, be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. The words “will,” “may,” “designed to,” “believe,” “should,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. These forward-looking statements are contained principally under Item 1, “Business,” and under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Because these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual results could differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements include those described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risk factors on our business. Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. 
