Today, we have a broad portfolio of diverse customers, including some of the best-known global brands such as Cisco, Ford, IBM, Johnson & Johnson and Microsoft. From manufacturing early networking equipment and mobile devices for companies like Motorola, Nokia, Juniper and Ericsson to making Palm Pilots, Xboxes, Blackberrys, and HP printers, Flex led the transition from contract manufacturing to value-added Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS). Our top customers come from more than a dozen different industries, providing us with a unique perspective on many of the fastest growing companies, by industry and by geography.
Flex was one of the first American service manufacturers to go offshore by setting up a manufacturing facility in Singapore. The company was one of the first to innovate with full service industrial parks across Asia and eventually other geographies, to bring suppliers closer to the manufacturing line, and to support emerging “just in time” supply chain needs. Corporate ownership shifted from public to private as markets went through the slumps of the late 80s and early 90s. In 1994, Flex returned to the public markets when it was listed on the Nasdaq. Since 2000, we have grown both organically and by acquisition, having acquired more than 75 companies including some of the biggest and best names in contract manufacturing like Solectron and Dii Group. These acquisitions enabled us to expand our global footprint, our technical and design capabilities, and our strategic customer partnerships.
We acknowledge that last year was marked by some challenges as the company evolved through organizational and business changes and that our performance did not reflect the true power and potential of Flex. In order to harness this power, we must begin by refocusing on the fundamentals of our business. Moving forward, you will see us drive more consistent, disciplined execution in everything we do. We will communicate realistic expectations and deliver predictable, sustainable results.
The full text of the resolution proposed for approval by our shareholders is as follows:
Availability of Proxy Materials on the Internet. We are pleased to take advantage of Securities and Exchange Commission rules that allow issuers to furnish proxy materials to some or all of their shareholders on the Internet. The Constitution was amended in 2016 to align with the provisions under the Singapore Companies Act, Cap. 50, which allow and facilitate the posting of proxy materials on the Internet at our designated website. We believe these rules will allow us to provide our shareholders with the information they need, while lowering the costs of delivery and reducing the environmental impact of our extraordinary general meeting of shareholders. On or about July 9, 2019, we will mail to most of our shareholders (including all of our registered shareholders) a Notice of Availability of Proxy Materials on the Internet containing instructions on how to access this joint proxy statement and our annual report and to submit their proxies via the Internet.
The full text of the resolutions proposed for approval by our shareholders is as follows:
The full text of the resolutions proposed for approval by our shareholders is as follows:
Availability of Proxy Materials on the Internet. We are pleased to take advantage of Securities and Exchange Commission rules that allow issuers to furnish proxy materials to some or all of their shareholders on the Internet. The Constitution was amended in 2016 to align with the provisions under the Singapore Companies Act, Cap. 50, which allow and facilitate the posting of proxy materials on the Internet at our designated website. We believe these rules will allow us to provide our shareholders with the information they need, while lowering the costs of delivery and reducing the environmental impact of our annual general meeting of shareholders. On or about July 9, 2019, we will mail to our shareholders (including all of our registered shareholders) a Notice of Availability of Proxy Materials on the Internet containing instructions on how to access this joint proxy statement and our annual report and to submit their proxies via the Internet.
While we achieved the positive results described above, fiscal year 2019 was also a challenging year for our business and our shareholders, marked by some financial results below expectations (and shareholder value declined relative to where Flex finished fiscal year 2018) and a CEO transition. In the face of these challenges, the Board of Directors and the Company’s management have taken, and will continue to take, significant actions to achieve short-term and long-term financial results positioning the Company for future gains in shareholder value, as summarized below.
Flex strives for excellence in corporate governance practices, which the Company recognizes as being fundamental to securing the trust of investors and key stakeholders. Flex’s management, together with our Board of Directors, continually evaluates processes and implements procedures designed to maintain strong governance and operations standards. Below are some of the highlights of the Company’s corporate governance practices.
The Company is seeking shareholder approval of amendments to the 2016 Constitution to (i) remove the requirement that directors retire by rotation (in other words, to remove the provisions under the 2016 Constitution that effectively classify the Board); (ii) increase the maximum number of directors on the Board from eleven to twelve; and (iii) effect certain other changes to conform to recent changes to the Companies Act.
• Modification of Article 58(c) to remove the words “whether by rotation or otherwise” with respect to appointing or re-appointing directors to fill vacancies arising at annual general meetings on retirement;
The foregoing description of the proposed amendments is qualified by reference to the text of the proposed amendments to the 2016 Constitution, which is shown in Annex A-1 to this proxy statement. You are urged to read the text of Annex A-1 in its entirety.
The foregoing description of the proposed amendment is qualified by reference to the text of the proposed amendments to the 2016 Constitution, which is shown in Annex A-2 to this proxy statement. You are urged to read the text of Annex A-2 in its entirety.
The foregoing description of the proposed amendments is qualified by reference to the text of the proposed amendments to the 2016 Constitution, which is shown in Annex A-3 to this proxy statement. You are urged to read the text of Annex A-3 in its entirety.
Mercer also represented to the Compensation Committee that there are no personal or business relationships between the Mercer account manager and any member of the Compensation Committee or a named executive officer beyond the Flex relationship. Further, the Mercer account manager does not directly own any Flex shares (although some of his investments controlled solely by independent, third-party managers may own Flex shares by way of indexed funds). Based on the above and other factors, including the factors set forth under Rule 10C-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (referred to in this joint proxy statement as the Exchange Act), the Compensation Committee assessed the independence of Mercer and concluded that no conflict of interest exists that would prevent Mercer from independently representing the Compensation Committee.
Flex has been improving healthcare for both patients and providers for the last 20 years, by designing, developing and connecting smarter healthcare devices and solutions. NEXTracker, a Flex company, is helping fuel the renewable energy transformation by designing and building some of the most advanced solar trackers and energy storage systems in the industry. Since 2012, Sintronics, a Flex founded company, transforms various waste streams into raw material that can be used to manufacture new products. This restorative and regenerative methodology is one of the key examples of a new economic sector, known as the Circular Economy.
Our Audit Committee has determined that the provision of non-audit services under appropriate circumstances may be compatible with maintaining the independence of Deloitte & Touche LLP, and that all such services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to us in the past were compatible with maintaining such independence. The Audit Committee is sensitive to the concern that some non-audit services, and related fees, could impair independence and the Audit Committee believes it important that independence be maintained. However, the Audit Committee also recognizes that in some areas, services that are identified by the relevant regulations as “tax fees” or “other fees” are sufficiently related to the audit work performed by Deloitte & Touche LLP that it would be highly inefficient and unnecessarily expensive to use a separate firm to perform those non-audit services. The Audit Committee intends to evaluate each such circumstance on its own merits, and to approve the performance of non-audit services where it believes efficiency can be obtained without meaningfully compromising independence.
Under the Singapore Companies Act, Ordinary Shares purchased or acquired by us may be held as treasury shares. Some of the provisions on treasury shares under the Singapore Companies Act are summarized below.
While we achieved the positive results described above, fiscal year 2019 was also a challenging year for our business and our shareholders, marked by some financial results below expectations (and shareholder value declined relative to where Flex finished fiscal year 2018) and a CEO transition. In the face of these challenges, the Board of Directors and the Company’s management have taken, and will continue to take, significant actions to achieve short-term and long-term financial results positioning the Company for future gains in shareholder value, as summarized below.
We own substantially all of the equity in Elementum Holding Ltd (“Holdco”), which in turn was a significant shareholder of Elementum SCM (Cayman) Ltd (“Elementum”), a privately-held software development company founded in 2012 by Flex and some of our former employees. At its founding, we reserved 3.8% of Flex’s interest in Holdco as “profits interests,” which are rights to receive a specified percentage of the appreciation that Flex realizes from its holdings in Holdco. During fiscal year 2019, Flex significantly reduced its ownership in Elementum and, as of March 31, 2019, it held only a minority position and Holdco no longer owned any equity in Elementum. In addition, NEOs who had previously been awarded profits interests in Elementum forfeited such profits interests (excluding Mr. McNamara, who retained his vested Elementum profits interests but forfeited any unvested Elemental profits interests as of December 31, 2018). No Elementum profits interests were granted in fiscal year 2019 and no profits interests in this entity will be awarded to Flex’s NEOs going forward.
The “Gross Shares Granted” noted above reflect the number of target awards as long-term incentives to be earned over future service and performance periods. Our discussions with shareholders also indicate that some may include the impact of shares released from actual awards earned from prior PSUs. If this perspective is to be considered, our point of view is that it is also relevant to consider the impact of shares that have been forfeited over time in order to provide a more complete view of overall shareholder dilution rates (e.g., shares granted plus/minus actual PSUs earned minus equity awards forfeited). The table below has been furnished to provide a more complete view of net shares granted/earned in recent years:
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides guidance for addressing actual or potential conflicts of interests, including those that may arise from transactions and relationships between us and our executive officers or directors. In addition, in order to formalize our policies and procedures for the review, approval or ratification, and disclosure of related person transactions, our Board of Directors adopted a Statement of Policy with Respect to Related Person Transactions. The policy generally provides that the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (or another committee comprised solely of independent directors) will review, approve in advance or ratify, all related person transactions between us and any director, any nominee for director, any executive officer, any beneficial owners of more than 5% of our Ordinary Shares or any immediate family member of any of the foregoing individuals. Under the policy, some ordinary course transactions or relationships are not required to be reviewed, approved or ratified by the applicable Board committee, including, among other things, the following transactions:
Some banks, brokers and other nominee record holders may be participating in the practice of “householding” proxy statements and annual reports for our beneficial shareholders. This means that only one copy of our proxy materials and our Annual Report on Form 10-K may have been sent to multiple shareholders in your household, unless your bank, broker or nominee received contrary instructions from one or more shareholders in your household. If you want to receive separate copies of our proxy materials or annual reports in the future, or if you are receiving multiple copies and would like to receive only one copy for your household, you should contact your bank, broker or other nominee record holder. We will promptly deliver a separate copy of either document to you if you request one by writing or calling us at the contact information listed later on this page.
The alterations which are proposed to be made to the 2016 Constitution of Flex Ltd. pursuant to EGM Proposal No. 1 set forth in the Notice of Extraordinary General Meeting dated July 9, 2019 are set out below. For ease of reference, the full text of the Articles proposed to be altered has been reproduced and the alterations highlighted. Proposed additions are indicated by double underlining and proposed deletions are indicated by strike-outs.
The alterations which are proposed to be made to the 2016 Constitution of Flex Ltd. pursuant to EGM Proposal No. 2 set forth in the Notice of Extraordinary General Meeting dated July 9, 2019 are set out below. For ease of reference, the full text of the Articles proposed to be altered has been reproduced and the alterations highlighted. Proposed additions are indicated by double underlining and proposed deletions are indicated by strike-outs.
The alterations which are proposed to be made to the 2016 Constitution of Flex Ltd. pursuant to EGM Proposal No. 3 set forth in the Notice of Extraordinary General Meeting dated July 9, 2019 are set out below. For ease of reference, the full text of the Articles proposed to be altered has been reproduced and the alterations highlighted. Proposed additions are indicated by double underlining and proposed deletions are indicated by strike-outs.
      (B) Where the Company has a Seal, every Every instrument to        Affixing Seal. which the Seal shall be affixed shall (subject to the provisions of this Constitution as to certificates for shares) be signed by a Director and shall be countersigned by the Secretary or by a second Director or by some other person appointed by the Directors in place of the Secretary for the purpose.
      (D) Where the Company has a Seal, the The Company may have      Share Seal. a duplicate Seal as referred to in Section 124 of the Act which shall be a facsimile of the Seal with the addition on its face of the words “Share Seal”.
Except for historical information contained herein, certain matters included in this annual report on Form 10-K are, or may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. The words “will,” “may,” “designed to,” “believe,” “should,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. These forward-looking statements are contained principally under Item 1, “Business,” and under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Because these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual results could differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward- looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements include those described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risk factors on our business. Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
to outsource some or all of their design, manufacturing, and after-market services requirements. In recent years we have seen an increased level of diversification by many companies, in the technology, automotive and healthcare industries along with the convergence of many industries being transformed by technology advancements. Companies that have historically identified themselves as software providers, internet service providers, or e-commerce retailers are entering the highly competitive and rapidly evolving hardware markets, with products that include mobile devices, home entertainment products, and wearable devices. This trend has resulted in significant changes to the hardware manufacturing and supply chain solutions requirements of such companies. Increasingly complex products require highly customized supply chain solutions, in turn resulting in significant changes to the overall manufacturing and supply chain landscape. The growth of the overall industry for calendar year 2018 is estimated to have been around 4%.
strategy includes having third-party suppliers of custom components located in our industrial parks to reduce material and transportation costs, simplify logistics, and facilitate inventory management. We also use a sophisticated automated manufacturing resource planning system and enhanced electronic data interchange capabilities to ensure inventory control and optimization. Through our manufacturing resources planning system, we have real-time visibility of material availability and are able to track work in process. We utilize electronic data interchange with our customers and suppliers to implement a variety of supply chain management programs. Electronic data interchange allows customers to share demand and product forecasts, deliver purchase orders and assists suppliers with satisfying just-in-time delivery and supplier-managed inventory requirements. This also enables us to implement vendor-managed inventory solutions to increase flexibility and reduce overall capital allocation in the supply chain. We procure a wide assortment of materials, including electronic components, plastics and metals. There are a number of sources for these materials, including customers for whom we are providing systems assembly and manufacturing services. On some occasions, there have been shortages of certain electronic components, most recently this has been connectors, capacitors, LCD panels and memory (both DRAM and Flash). However, such shortages have not had a material impact on our operating results for any periods presented. See “Risk Factors—We may be adversely affected by supply chain issues, including shortages of required electronic components.”
We are committed to providing decent work for Flex employees, respecting their dignity and striving to advance human rights around the world. Our philosophy, strategies, and policies in human rights, health and safety, diversity and inclusion, support the inclusion of all people in our working environment. Some of the cornerstone specific goals through which we measure our performance include increasing employee development, social and environmental management system audits,
the environment, including laws governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We have implemented processes and procedures to ensure that our operations are in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. We do not believe that costs of compliance with these laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, operating results, or competitive position. In addition, we are responsible for cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing facilities and at some third-party sites. We engage environmental consulting firms to assist us in the evaluation of environmental liabilities associated with our ongoing operations, historical disposal activities and closed sites in order to establish appropriate accruals in our financial statements. We determine the amount of our accruals for environmental matters by analyzing and estimating the probability of occurrence and the reasonable possibility of incurring costs in light of information currently available.
licenses) with third parties which obligate us to report covered behavior to the licensor and pay license fees to the licensor for certain activities or products, or that enable our use of third-party technologies. We may also decline to enter into licenses for intellectual property that we do not think is useful for or used in our operations, or for which our customers or suppliers have licenses or have assumed responsibility. Given the diverse and varied nature of our business and the location of our business around the world, certain activities we perform, such as providing assembly services in China and India, may fall outside the scope of those licenses or may not be subject to the applicable intellectual property rights. Our licensors may disagree and claim royalties are owed for such activities. In addition, the basis (e.g. base price) for any royalty amounts owed are audited by licensors and may be challenged. Some of these disagreements may lead to claims and litigation that might not be resolved in our favor. Additionally, litigation could be lengthy and costly and could materially harm our financial condition regardless of the outcome.
Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or locations, or delay production, and our current and potential customers may decide to manufacture some or all of their products internally, which could harm our business.
manufacture and deliver for those customers, by causing a delay in the repayment of our expenditures for inventory in preparation for customer orders and for an impairment loss for inventory, and by lowering our asset utilization and overhead absorption resulting in lower gross margins and earnings. Additionally, current and prospective customers continuously evaluate our capabilities against other providers as well as against the merits of manufacturing products themselves. Our business would be adversely affected if customers decide to perform these functions internally or transfer their business to another provider. In addition, we face competition from the manufacturing operations of some of our current and potential customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing. In the past, some of our customers moved a portion of their manufacturing from us in order to more fully utilize their excess internal manufacturing capacity. Any of these developments could cause a decline in our sales, loss of market acceptance of our products or services, decreases of our profits or loss of our market share.
or the location of our operations. For example, we compete with major global EMS providers, other smaller EMS companies that have a regional or product-specific focus and ODMs with respect to some of the services that we provide. We also compete with our current and prospective customers, who evaluate our capabilities in light of their own capabilities and cost structures. Our industry is extremely competitive, many of our competitors have achieved substantial market share, and some may have lower cost structures or greater design, manufacturing, financial or other resources than we do. We face particular competition from Asian-based competitors, including Taiwanese ODM suppliers who compete in a variety of our end markets and have a substantial share of global information technology hardware production. If we are unable to provide comparable manufacturing services and improved products at lower cost than the other companies in our market, our net sales could decline.
forces, that may cause them to reduce their purchases from us or, in some cases, result in the termination of their relationship with us. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, or the loss of major customers, would materially harm our business. If we are not able to timely replace expired, canceled or reduced contracts with new business, our revenues and profitability could be harmed. Additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our key customers generally entail risks to our business. If a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by any of our largest customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
the future, experience financial difficulty. If some of our customers experience financial difficulty, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed to us from these customers, or demand for our products from these customers could decline. Additionally, if our suppliers experience financial difficulty we could have difficulty sourcing supplies necessary to fulfill production requirements and meet scheduled shipments. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us on a timely basis, or at all, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Such adverse effects could include one or more of the following: an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, a charge for inventory write-offs, a reduction in revenue, and an increase in our working capital requirements due to higher inventory levels and increases in days our accounts receivables are outstanding.
From time to time, we have experienced shortages of some of the electronic components that
Although we enter into contracts with our design services customers, we may design and develop products for these customers prior to receiving a purchase order or other firm commitment from them. We are required to make substantial investments in the resources necessary to design and develop these products, and no revenue may be generated from these efforts if our customers do not approve the designs in a timely manner or at all. In addition, we may make investments in designing products and not be able to design viable manufacturable products, in which cases we may not be able to recover our investments. Even if we are successful in designing manufacturable products and our customers accept our designs, if our customers do not then purchase anticipated levels of products, we may not realize any profits. Our design activities often require that we purchase inventory for initial production runs before we have a purchase commitment from a customer. Even after we have a contract with a customer with respect to a product, these contracts may allow the customer to delay or cancel deliveries and may not obligate the customer to any particular volume of purchases. These contracts can generally be terminated on short notice. In addition, some of the products we design and develop must satisfy safety and regulatory standards and some must receive government certifications. If we fail to obtain these approvals or certifications on a timely basis, we would be unable to sell these products, which would harm our sales, profitability and reputation.
In addition, some countries in which we operate, such as Brazil, Hungary, India, Mexico, Malaysia
convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings. In some countries, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert our cash distributions to U.S. dollars or other freely convertible currencies, or to move funds from our accounts in these countries. Furthermore, the central bank of any of these countries may have the authority to suspend, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on foreign exchange transactions or to approve distributions to foreign investors.
We retain certain intellectual property rights to some of the technologies that we develop as part of our engineering, design and manufacturing services and components offerings. The measures we have taken to prevent unauthorized use of our technology may not be successful. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, this could reduce or eliminate the competitive advantages of our proprietary technology, which would harm our business.
The expansion of our business, as well as business contractions and other changes in our customers’ requirements, have in the past, and may in the future, require that we adjust our business and cost structures by incurring restructuring charges. Restructuring activities involve reductions in our workforce at some locations and closure of certain facilities. All of these changes have in the past placed, and may in the future place, considerable strain on our financial and management control systems and resources, including decision support, accounting management, information systems and facilities. If we do not properly manage our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to manage our employees, our business could be harmed.
sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers, and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. We regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet or to introduce malicious software to our information systems. We are also a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees, and customers; or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. We believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. In some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. We have implemented security systems with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and inventory and protecting our customers’ and our suppliers’ confidential information. In addition, while we seek to detect and investigate all unauthorized attempts
personal injury or property damage or is otherwise found to be defective, we could spend a significant amount of money to resolve the claim. In addition, product liability and product recall insurance coverage are expensive and may not be available for some or all of our services offerings on acceptable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product liability or product warranty claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied, limited or is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, we are responsible for the cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing facilities and at some third party sites. If more stringent compliance or cleanup
our investments. We make investments in private funds and companies to further our strategic objectives, support key business initiatives, and develop business relationships with related portfolio companies. Many of the instruments in which we invest are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. During the last half of fiscal year 2019, we reassessed our strategy with respect to our investment portfolio. We focused on streamlining our investment portfolio and disposed of some of our investments and recognized certain charges. If any of the funds or companies in which we invest fail, we could lose all or part of our investment. From time-to-time we have identified observable price changes, or impairments in investments, and we have written down certain investments fair values and recognized a loss.
“investment grade” by S&P, rated Baa3 by Moody’s which is considered to be “investment grade” by Moody’s, and rated BBB- by Fitch which is considered to be “investment grade” by Fitch. Any decline in our credit rating may make it more expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares, increase our interest payments under some of our existing debt agreements, and have other negative implications on our business, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the interest rate payable on some of our credit facilities is subject to adjustment from time to time if our credit ratings change. Thus, any potential future negative change in our credit rating may increase the interest rate payable on these credit facilities.
significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, some of our systems are not fully redundant and we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disruptions.
We rely on a variety of common carriers to transport our materials from our suppliers to us, and to transport our products from us to our customers. Problems suffered by any of these common carriers, whether due to a natural disaster, labor problem, increased energy prices, criminal activity or some other issue, could result in shipping delays, increased costs, or other supply chain disruptions, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our operations.
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The words “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “intends,” “plans” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements which refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those discussed in this section and in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” In addition, new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risk factors on our business. Accordingly, our future results may differ materially from historical results or from those discussed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
primarily in the technology sector. Some companies that have historically identified themselves as software providers, Internet service providers or e-commerce retailers have entered the highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology hardware markets, such as mobile devices, home entertainment and wearable devices. This trend has resulted in a significant change in the manufacturing and supply chain solutions requirements of such companies. While the products have become more complex, the supply chain solutions required by such companies have become more customized and demanding, and it has changed the manufacturing and supply chain landscape significantly.
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. Recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level by comparing the reporting unit’s carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit, which is measured based upon, among other factors, market multiples for comparable companies as well as a discounted cash flow analysis. These approaches use significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy and require us to make various judgmental assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates which consider our budgets, business plans and economic projections, and are believed to reflect market participant views. Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value of the reporting units are outside the control of management, including interest rates, cost of capital, tax rates, market EBITDA comparables and credit ratings. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, it could result in
momentum from our cloud and data center business as well as the expansion of network infrastructure programs to support 4G and 5G technology, offset by declines in our data networking business due to weakness with some legacy product lines. Our IEI segment increased $0.2 billion or 4%, which was mainly driven by new programs and customer launches within our industrial, home and lifestyle businesses, offset by declines in our capital equipment and energy businesses. Our HRS segment increased $59 million or 1% from higher sales in our health solutions business as we benefited from prior year investments in design, engineering and automation that have strengthened and improved our capabilities and competitive positioning that more than offset year over year declines from our automotive customers primarily in Asia. These segment increases were partially offset by a decrease of $107 million or 1.5% in our CTG segment, primarily within the legacy consumer sectors of the segment and as a result of actively repositioning the portfolio of customers and rationalizing underperforming customers and eliminating certain product categories.
year 2019. Gross margin decreased 40 basis points, to 5.8% of net sales in fiscal year 2019, from 6.2% of net sales in fiscal year 2018. The decrease is primarily due to an additional $32 million, or 10 basis points, of restructuring charges coupled with approximately $47 million of additional charges related to distressed customers incurred during fiscal year 2019 versus fiscal year 2018. As noted above, during the year we completed the wind down of our NIKE Mexico operations and incurred a total of $66 million of charges primarily for non-cash asset impairments in the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2019. Additional gross profit and gross margin declines were due to revenue reductions in some of our higher margin businesses, such as automotive and semi-cap equipment and further due to the Multek China divestiture. Also negatively pressuring the gross profit margin was the significant revenues from ramping new programs in India which had pressured margins below our average margins during the ramp in fiscal year 2019.
Liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of
the business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances; however, any current restrictions are not material. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout the global organization. We believe that our existing cash balances, together with anticipated cash flows from operations and borrowings available under our credit facilities, will be sufficient to fund our operations through at least the next twelve months.
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. Recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level by comparing the reporting unit’s carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit, which typically is measured based upon, among other factors, market multiples for comparable companies as well as a discounted cash flow analysis. These approaches use significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy and require management to make various judgmental assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates which consider its budgets, business plans and economic projections, and are believed to reflect market participant views. Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value of the reporting units are outside the control of management, including interest rates, cost of capital, tax rates, market EBITDA comparable and credit ratings. While the Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If the actual results are not consistent with management’s estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, it could result in material impairments of the Company’s goodwill. During fiscal year 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2017-04 “Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment”, which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. The ASU did not have a material impact to Flex’s financial position during the period as there were no identified impairments during the period. (Refer to “Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncement” below for more details on the ASU).
The Company monitors these investments for impairment indicators and makes appropriate reductions in carrying values as required whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired. The factors the Company considers in its evaluation of potential impairment of its investments include, but are not limited to, a significant deterioration in the earnings performance or business prospects of the investee, or factors that raise significant concerns about the investee’s ability to continue as a going concern, such as negative cash flows from operation or working capital deficiencies. Fair values of these investments, when required, are estimated using unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy, and require management to make various judgmental assumptions about primarily comparable company multiples and discounted cash flow projections. Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in
At any time prior to maturity, the Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at a redemption
At any time prior to March 15, 2025, the Company may redeem some or all of the 2025 Notes at a
royalties are owed for such activities. In addition, the basis (e.g. base price) for any royalty amounts owed are audited by licensors and may be challenged. Some of these disagreements, may lead to claims and litigation that might not be resolved in the Company’s favor. Additionally, litigation could be lengthy and costly and could materially harm the Company’s financial condition regardless of the outcome. In March 2018, the Company received an inquiry from a licensor referencing its patent license agreement with the Company, and requesting information relating to royalties for products that the Company assembles for a customer in China. The Company and licensor have had subsequent discussions, during which the licensor claimed that the Company owes a material amount under the patent license agreement, which the Company disputes and would contest vigorously. While the Company cannot predict the outcome with respect to this claim or estimate an amount or reasonable range of loss, a material loss is reasonably possible.
appointed CEO of the Company effective February 11, 2019. As part of her new role and responsibilities, the CEO along with certain direct report that oversee operations of the business, are now considered the CODM. There is a possibility that the CODM will request some changes in the information that it regularly reviews in determining how to allocate resources and in assessing performance, which could eventually result in changes to the Company’s reportable segments.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a- 15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Internal control over financial reporting consists of policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) are designed and operated to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the Company’s financial reporting and the Company’s process for the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, a system of internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance and may not prevent or detect misstatements or prevent or detect instances of fraud. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls may be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report, to our shareholders, may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of  Section  21E of  the Securities Exchange Act of  1934 and Section  27A of  the Securities Act of 1933. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “will,” “may,” “designed to,” “believe,” “should,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. While the company may elect to update forward-looking statements in the future, it specifically disclaims its obligation to do so, even if the company’s estimates change. A number of factors could cause the results of the company to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including those detailed under the headings “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of  Operations” in Part II, Item 7, in the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
